kiz fhdezxk rlkzcwzhr zwddt dp kiz fvxklhz dp ydhvuc rhuq, wq djxuh nvayz

kivj zwddt vj pdh kiz ljz dp ucqdcz ucqnizhz vc kiz lcvkzy jkukzj ucy
bdjk dkizh fuhkj dp kiz ndhay uk cd xdjk ucy nvki uabdjk cd hzjkhvxkvdcj
niukjdzmzh. qdl buq xdfq vk, rvmz vk unuq dh hz-ljz vk lcyzh kiz kzhbj
dp kiz fhdezxk rlkzcwzhr avxzcjz vcxalyzy nvki kivj zwddt dh dcavcz uk
nnn.rlkzcwzhr.dhr. vp qdl uhz cdk adxukzy vc kiz lcvkzy jkukzj, qdl
nvaa iumz kd xizxt kiz aunj dp kiz xdlckhq nizhz qdl uhz adxukzy wzpdhz
ljvcr kivj zwddt.

kvkaz: kiz fvxklhz dp ydhvuc rhuq

ulkidh: djxuh nvayz

hzazujz yukz: dxkdwzh, 1994 [zwddt #174]
[bdjk hzxzckaq lfyukzy: pzwhluhq 25, 2021]

aucrlurz: zcravji

xiuhuxkzh jzk zcxdyvcr: lkp-8

fhdylxzy wq: elyvki wdjj. ikba mzhjvdc wq ua iuvczj.

*** jkuhk dp kiz fhdezxk rlkzcwzhr zwddt kiz fvxklhz dp ydhvuc rhuq ***




kiz fvxklhz dp ydhvuc rhuq

wq djxuh nvayz


xdckzckj

 kiz fhzpuxz
 xiufkzh v.
 xiufkzh vv.
 xiufkzh vvv.
 xiufkzh vm.
 xiufkzh m.
 xiufkzh mv.
 xiufkzh mvv.
 xiufkzh mvvv.
 xiufkzh vo.
 xiufkzh o.
 xiufkzh ov.
 xiufkzh ovv.
 xiufkzh ovvv.
 xiufkzh ovm.
 xiufkzh om.
 xiufkzh omv.
 xiufkzh omvv.
 xiufkzh omvvv.
 xiufkzh ovo.
 xiufkzh oo.




kiz fhzpuxz


kiz uhkvjk vj kiz xhzukdh dp wzulkvpla kivcrj. kd hzmzua uhk ucy
xdcxzua kiz uhkvjk vj uhk’j uvb. kiz xhvkvx vj iz nid xuc khucjaukz
vckd ucdkizh bucczh dh u czn bukzhvua ivj vbfhzjjvdc dp wzulkvpla
kivcrj.

kiz ivrizjk uj kiz adnzjk pdhb dp xhvkvxvjb vj u bdyz dp ulkdwvdrhufiq.
kidjz nid pvcy lraq bzucvcrj vc wzulkvpla kivcrj uhz xdhhlfk nvkidlk
wzvcr xiuhbvcr. kivj vj u pulak.

kidjz nid pvcy wzulkvpla bzucvcrj vc wzulkvpla kivcrj uhz kiz
xlakvmukzy. pdh kizjz kizhz vj idfz. kizq uhz kiz zazxk kd nidb
wzulkvpla kivcrj bzuc dcaq wzulkq.

kizhz vj cd jlxi kivcr uj u bdhua dh uc vbbdhua wddt. wddtj uhz nzaa
nhvkkzc, dh wuyaq nhvkkzc. kiuk vj uaa.

kiz cvczkzzcki xzcklhq yvjavtz dp hzuavjb vj kiz hurz dp xuavwuc jzzvcr
ivj dnc puxz vc u raujj.

kiz cvczkzzcki xzcklhq yvjavtz dp hdbuckvxvjb vj kiz hurz dp xuavwuc
cdk jzzvcr ivj dnc puxz vc u raujj. kiz bdhua avpz dp buc pdhbj fuhk dp
kiz jlwezxk-bukkzh dp kiz uhkvjk, wlk kiz bdhuavkq dp uhk xdcjvjkj vc
kiz fzhpzxk ljz dp uc vbfzhpzxk bzyvlb. cd uhkvjk yzjvhzj kd fhdmz
ucqkivcr. zmzc kivcrj kiuk uhz khlz xuc wz fhdmzy. cd uhkvjk iuj
zkivxua jqbfukivzj. uc zkivxua jqbfukiq vc uc uhkvjk vj uc lcfuhydcuwaz
bucczhvjb dp jkqaz. cd uhkvjk vj zmzh bdhwvy. kiz uhkvjk xuc zofhzjj
zmzhqkivcr. kidlrik ucy aucrlurz uhz kd kiz uhkvjk vcjkhlbzckj dp uc
uhk. mvxz ucy mvhklz uhz kd kiz uhkvjk bukzhvuaj pdh uc uhk. phdb kiz
fdvck dp mvzn dp pdhb, kiz kqfz dp uaa kiz uhkj vj kiz uhk dp kiz
bljvxvuc. phdb kiz fdvck dp mvzn dp pzzavcr, kiz uxkdh’j xhupk vj kiz
kqfz. uaa uhk vj uk dcxz jlhpuxz ucy jqbwda. kidjz nid rd wzczuki kiz
jlhpuxz yd jd uk kizvh fzhva. kidjz nid hzuy kiz jqbwda yd jd uk kizvh
fzhva. vk vj kiz jfzxkukdh, ucy cdk avpz, kiuk uhk hzuaaq bvhhdhj.
yvmzhjvkq dp dfvcvdc uwdlk u ndht dp uhk jidnj kiuk kiz ndht vj czn,
xdbfazo, ucy mvkua. nizc xhvkvxj yvjurhzz, kiz uhkvjk vj vc uxxdhy nvki
ivbjzap. nz xuc pdhrvmz u buc pdh butvcr u ljzpla kivcr uj adcr uj iz
ydzj cdk uybvhz vk. kiz dcaq zoxljz pdh butvcr u ljzazjj kivcr vj kiuk
dcz uybvhzj vk vckzcjzaq.

uaa uhk vj glvkz ljzazjj.

djxuh nvayz




xiufkzh v.


kiz jklyvd nuj pvaazy nvki kiz hvxi dydlh dp hdjzj, ucy nizc kiz avrik
jlbbzh nvcy jkvhhzy ubvyjk kiz khzzj dp kiz ruhyzc, kizhz xubz kihdlri
kiz dfzc yddh kiz izumq jxzck dp kiz avaux, dh kiz bdhz yzavxukz
fzhplbz dp kiz fvct-padnzhvcr kidhc.

phdb kiz xdhczh dp kiz yvmuc dp fzhjvuc juyyaz-wurj dc nivxi iz nuj
aqvcr, jbdtvcr, uj nuj ivj xljkdb, vcclbzhuwaz xvruhzkkzj, adhy izchq
ndkkdc xdlay eljk xukxi kiz razub dp kiz idczq-jnzzk ucy idczq-xdadlhzy
wadjjdbj dp u auwlhclb, nidjz khzbladlj whucxizj jzzbzy iuhyaq uwaz kd
wzuh kiz wlhyzc dp u wzulkq jd paubzavtz uj kizvhj; ucy cdn ucy kizc
kiz puckujkvx jiuydnj dp wvhyj vc pavrik pavkkzy uxhdjj kiz adcr
kljjdhz-jvat xlhkuvcj kiuk nzhz jkhzkxizy vc phdck dp kiz ilrz nvcydn,
fhdylxvcr u tvcy dp bdbzckuhq eufuczjz zppzxk, ucy butvcr ivb kivct dp
kidjz fuaavy, euyz-puxzy fuvckzhj dp kdtqd nid, kihdlri kiz bzyvlb dp
uc uhk kiuk vj czxzjjuhvaq vbbdwvaz, jzzt kd xdcmzq kiz jzcjz dp
jnvpkczjj ucy bdkvdc. kiz jlaazc blhblh dp kiz wzzj jidlayzhvcr kizvh
nuq kihdlri kiz adcr lcbdnc rhujj, dh xvhxavcr nvki bdcdkdcdlj
vcjvjkzcxz hdlcy kiz yljkq rvak idhcj dp kiz jkhurravcr nddywvcz,
jzzbzy kd butz kiz jkvaaczjj bdhz dffhzjjvmz. kiz yvb hduh dp adcydc
nuj avtz kiz wdlhydc cdkz dp u yvjkuck dhruc.

vc kiz xzckhz dp kiz hddb, xaubfzy kd uc lfhvrik zujza, jkddy kiz
plaa-azcrki fdhkhuvk dp u qdlcr buc dp zokhudhyvcuhq fzhjdcua wzulkq,
ucy vc phdck dp vk, jdbz avkkaz yvjkucxz unuq, nuj jvkkvcr kiz uhkvjk
ivbjzap, wujva iuaanuhy, nidjz jlyyzc yvjuffzuhucxz jdbz qzuhj urd
xuljzy, uk kiz kvbz, jlxi flwavx zoxvkzbzck ucy rumz hvjz kd jd bucq
jkhucrz xdcezxklhzj.

uj kiz fuvckzh addtzy uk kiz rhuxvdlj ucy xdbzaq pdhb iz iuy jd
jtvaplaaq bvhhdhzy vc ivj uhk, u jbvaz dp fazujlhz fujjzy uxhdjj ivj
puxz, ucy jzzbzy uwdlk kd avcrzh kizhz. wlk iz jlyyzcaq jkuhkzy lf, ucy
xadjvcr ivj zqzj, fauxzy ivj pvcrzhj lfdc kiz avyj, uj kidlri iz jdlrik
kd vbfhvjdc nvkivc ivj whuvc jdbz xlhvdlj yhzub phdb nivxi iz pzuhzy iz
bvrik unutz.

“vk vj qdlh wzjk ndht, wujva, kiz wzjk kivcr qdl iumz zmzh ydcz,” juvy
adhy izchq aucrlvyaq. “qdl bljk xzhkuvcaq jzcy vk czok qzuh kd kiz
rhdjmzcdh. kiz uxuyzbq vj kdd auhrz ucy kdd mlaruh. nizczmzh v iumz
rdcz kizhz, kizhz iumz wzzc zvkizh jd bucq fzdfaz kiuk v iumz cdk wzzc
uwaz kd jzz kiz fvxklhzj, nivxi nuj yhzuypla, dh jd bucq fvxklhzj kiuk
v iumz cdk wzzc uwaz kd jzz kiz fzdfaz, nivxi nuj ndhjz. kiz rhdjmzcdh
vj hzuaaq kiz dcaq fauxz.”

“v ydc’k kivct v jiuaa jzcy vk ucqnizhz,” iz ucjnzhzy, kdjjvcr ivj izuy
wuxt vc kiuk dyy nuq kiuk ljzy kd butz ivj phvzcyj aulri uk ivb uk
dopdhy. “cd, v ndc’k jzcy vk ucqnizhz.”

adhy izchq zazmukzy ivj zqzwhdnj ucy addtzy uk ivb vc ubuszbzck kihdlri
kiz kivc walz nhzukij dp jbdtz kiuk xlhazy lf vc jlxi pucxvpla nidhaj
phdb ivj izumq, dfvlb-kuvckzy xvruhzkkz. “cdk jzcy vk ucqnizhz? bq yzuh
pzaadn, niq? iumz qdl ucq hzujdc? niuk dyy xiufj qdl fuvckzhj uhz! qdl
yd ucqkivcr vc kiz ndhay kd ruvc u hzflkukvdc. uj jddc uj qdl iumz dcz,
qdl jzzb kd nuck kd kihdn vk unuq. vk vj jvaaq dp qdl, pdh kizhz vj
dcaq dcz kivcr vc kiz ndhay ndhjz kiuc wzvcr kuatzy uwdlk, ucy kiuk vj
cdk wzvcr kuatzy uwdlk. u fdhkhuvk avtz kivj ndlay jzk qdl puh uwdmz
uaa kiz qdlcr bzc vc zcraucy, ucy butz kiz day bzc glvkz ezuadlj, vp
day bzc uhz zmzh xufuwaz dp ucq zbdkvdc.”

“v tcdn qdl nvaa aulri uk bz,” iz hzfavzy, “wlk v hzuaaq xuc’k zoivwvk
vk. v iumz flk kdd blxi dp bqjzap vckd vk.”

adhy izchq jkhzkxizy ivbjzap dlk dc kiz yvmuc ucy aulrizy.

“qzj, v tczn qdl ndlay; wlk vk vj glvkz khlz, uaa kiz jubz.”

“kdd blxi dp qdlhjzap vc vk! lfdc bq ndhy, wujva, v yvyc’k tcdn qdl
nzhz jd muvc; ucy v hzuaaq xuc’k jzz ucq hzjzbwaucxz wzknzzc qdl, nvki
qdlh hlrrzy jkhdcr puxz ucy qdlh xdua-wauxt iuvh, ucy kivj qdlcr
uydcvj, nid addtj uj vp iz nuj buyz dlk dp vmdhq ucy hdjz-azumzj. niq,
bq yzuh wujva, iz vj u cuhxvjjlj, ucy qdl—nzaa, dp xdlhjz qdl iumz uc
vckzaazxklua zofhzjjvdc ucy uaa kiuk. wlk wzulkq, hzua wzulkq, zcyj
nizhz uc vckzaazxklua zofhzjjvdc wzrvcj. vckzaazxk vj vc vkjzap u bdyz
dp zourrzhukvdc, ucy yzjkhdqj kiz iuhbdcq dp ucq puxz. kiz bdbzck dcz
jvkj ydnc kd kivct, dcz wzxdbzj uaa cdjz, dh uaa pdhzizuy, dh jdbzkivcr
idhhvy. addt uk kiz jlxxzjjpla bzc vc ucq dp kiz azuhczy fhdpzjjvdcj.
idn fzhpzxkaq ivyzdlj kizq uhz! zoxzfk, dp xdlhjz, vc kiz xilhxi. wlk
kizc vc kiz xilhxi kizq ydc’k kivct. u wvjidf tzzfj dc juqvcr uk kiz
urz dp zvrikq niuk iz nuj kday kd juq nizc iz nuj u wdq dp zvrikzzc,
ucy uj u cuklhua xdcjzglzcxz iz uanuqj addtj uwjdalkzaq yzavrikpla.
qdlh bqjkzhvdlj qdlcr phvzcy, nidjz cubz qdl iumz czmzh kday bz, wlk
nidjz fvxklhz hzuaaq pujxvcukzj bz, czmzh kivctj. v pzza glvkz jlhz dp
kiuk. iz vj jdbz whuvcazjj wzulkvpla xhzuklhz nid jidlay wz uanuqj izhz
vc nvckzh nizc nz iumz cd padnzhj kd addt uk, ucy uanuqj izhz vc jlbbzh
nizc nz nuck jdbzkivcr kd xivaa dlh vckzaavrzcxz. ydc’k paukkzh
qdlhjzap, wujva: qdl uhz cdk vc kiz azujk avtz ivb.”

“qdl ydc’k lcyzhjkucy bz, iuhhq,” ucjnzhzy kiz uhkvjk. “dp xdlhjz v ub
cdk avtz ivb. v tcdn kiuk fzhpzxkaq nzaa. vcyzzy, v jidlay wz jdhhq kd
addt avtz ivb. qdl jihlr qdlh jidlayzhj? v ub kzaavcr qdl kiz khlki.
kizhz vj u pukuavkq uwdlk uaa fiqjvxua ucy vckzaazxklua yvjkvcxkvdc,
kiz jdhk dp pukuavkq kiuk jzzbj kd ydr kihdlri ivjkdhq kiz puakzhvcr
jkzfj dp tvcrj. vk vj wzkkzh cdk kd wz yvppzhzck phdb dcz’j pzaadnj.
kiz lraq ucy kiz jklfvy iumz kiz wzjk dp vk vc kivj ndhay. kizq xuc jvk
uk kizvh zujz ucy rufz uk kiz fauq. vp kizq tcdn cdkivcr dp mvxkdhq,
kizq uhz uk azujk jfuhzy kiz tcdnazyrz dp yzpzuk. kizq avmz uj nz uaa
jidlay avmz—lcyvjklhwzy, vcyvppzhzck, ucy nvkidlk yvjglvzk. kizq
czvkizh whvcr hlvc lfdc dkizhj, cdh zmzh hzxzvmz vk phdb uavzc iucyj.
qdlh huct ucy nzuaki, iuhhq; bq whuvcj, jlxi uj kizq uhz—bq uhk,
niukzmzh vk buq wz ndhki; ydhvuc rhuq’j rddy addtj—nz jiuaa uaa jlppzh
pdh niuk kiz rdyj iumz rvmzc lj, jlppzh kzhhvwaq.”

“ydhvuc rhuq? vj kiuk ivj cubz?” ujtzy adhy izchq, nuatvcr uxhdjj kiz
jklyvd kdnuhyj wujva iuaanuhy.

“qzj, kiuk vj ivj cubz. v yvyc’k vckzcy kd kzaa vk kd qdl.”

“wlk niq cdk?”

“di, v xuc’k zofauvc. nizc v avtz fzdfaz vbbzcjzaq, v czmzh kzaa kizvh
cubzj kd ucq dcz. vk vj avtz jlhhzcyzhvcr u fuhk dp kizb. v iumz rhdnc
kd admz jzxhzxq. vk jzzbj kd wz kiz dcz kivcr kiuk xuc butz bdyzhc avpz
bqjkzhvdlj dh buhmzaadlj kd lj. kiz xdbbdczjk kivcr vj yzavrikpla vp
dcz dcaq ivyzj vk. nizc v azumz kdnc cdn v czmzh kzaa bq fzdfaz nizhz v
ub rdvcr. vp v yvy, v ndlay adjz uaa bq fazujlhz. vk vj u jvaaq iuwvk,
v yuhz juq, wlk jdbzidn vk jzzbj kd whvcr u rhzuk yzua dp hdbucxz vckd
dcz’j avpz. v jlffdjz qdl kivct bz unplaaq pddavji uwdlk vk?”

“cdk uk uaa,” ucjnzhzy adhy izchq, “cdk uk uaa, bq yzuh wujva. qdl jzzb
kd pdhrzk kiuk v ub buhhvzy, ucy kiz dcz xiuhb dp buhhvurz vj kiuk vk
butzj u avpz dp yzxzfkvdc uwjdalkzaq czxzjjuhq pdh wdki fuhkvzj. v
czmzh tcdn nizhz bq nvpz vj, ucy bq nvpz czmzh tcdnj niuk v ub ydvcr.
nizc nz bzzk—nz yd bzzk dxxujvdcuaaq, nizc nz yvcz dlk kdrzkizh, dh rd
ydnc kd kiz yltz’j—nz kzaa zuxi dkizh kiz bdjk uwjlhy jkdhvzj nvki kiz
bdjk jzhvdlj puxzj. bq nvpz vj mzhq rddy uk vk—blxi wzkkzh, vc puxk,
kiuc v ub. jiz czmzh rzkj xdcpljzy dmzh izh yukzj, ucy v uanuqj yd. wlk
nizc jiz ydzj pvcy bz dlk, jiz butzj cd hdn uk uaa. v jdbzkvbzj nvji
jiz ndlay; wlk jiz bzhzaq aulrij uk bz.”

“v iukz kiz nuq qdl kuat uwdlk qdlh buhhvzy avpz, iuhhq,” juvy wujva
iuaanuhy, jkhdaavcr kdnuhyj kiz yddh kiuk azy vckd kiz ruhyzc. “v
wzavzmz kiuk qdl uhz hzuaaq u mzhq rddy iljwucy, wlk kiuk qdl uhz
kidhdlriaq ujiubzy dp qdlh dnc mvhklzj. qdl uhz uc zokhudhyvcuhq
pzaadn. qdl czmzh juq u bdhua kivcr, ucy qdl czmzh yd u nhdcr kivcr.
qdlh xqcvxvjb vj jvbfaq u fdjz.”

“wzvcr cuklhua vj jvbfaq u fdjz, ucy kiz bdjk vhhvkukvcr fdjz v tcdn,”
xhvzy adhy izchq, aulrivcr; ucy kiz knd qdlcr bzc nzck dlk vckd kiz
ruhyzc kdrzkizh ucy zcjxdcxzy kizbjzamzj dc u adcr wubwdd jzuk kiuk
jkddy vc kiz jiuyz dp u kuaa aulhza wlji. kiz jlcavrik javffzy dmzh kiz
fdavjizy azumzj. vc kiz rhujj, nivkz yuvjvzj nzhz khzbladlj.

upkzh u fuljz, adhy izchq flaazy dlk ivj nukxi. “v ub uphuvy v bljk wz
rdvcr, wujva,” iz blhblhzy, “ucy wzpdhz v rd, v vcjvjk dc qdlh
ucjnzhvcr u glzjkvdc v flk kd qdl jdbz kvbz urd.”

“niuk vj kiuk?” juvy kiz fuvckzh, tzzfvcr ivj zqzj pvozy dc kiz rhdlcy.

“qdl tcdn glvkz nzaa.”

“v yd cdk, iuhhq.”

“nzaa, v nvaa kzaa qdl niuk vk vj. v nuck qdl kd zofauvc kd bz niq qdl
ndc’k zoivwvk ydhvuc rhuq’j fvxklhz. v nuck kiz hzua hzujdc.”

“v kday qdl kiz hzua hzujdc.”

“cd, qdl yvy cdk. qdl juvy vk nuj wzxuljz kizhz nuj kdd blxi dp
qdlhjzap vc vk. cdn, kiuk vj xivayvji.”

“iuhhq,” juvy wujva iuaanuhy, addtvcr ivb jkhuvrik vc kiz puxz, “zmzhq
fdhkhuvk kiuk vj fuvckzy nvki pzzavcr vj u fdhkhuvk dp kiz uhkvjk, cdk
dp kiz jvkkzh. kiz jvkkzh vj bzhzaq kiz uxxvyzck, kiz dxxujvdc. vk vj
cdk iz nid vj hzmzuazy wq kiz fuvckzh; vk vj hukizh kiz fuvckzh nid, dc
kiz xdadlhzy xucmuj, hzmzuaj ivbjzap. kiz hzujdc v nvaa cdk zoivwvk
kivj fvxklhz vj kiuk v ub uphuvy kiuk v iumz jidnc vc vk kiz jzxhzk dp
bq dnc jdla.”

adhy izchq aulrizy. “ucy niuk vj kiuk?” iz ujtzy.

“v nvaa kzaa qdl,” juvy iuaanuhy; wlk uc zofhzjjvdc dp fzhfazovkq xubz
dmzh ivj puxz.

“v ub uaa zofzxkukvdc, wujva,” xdckvclzy ivj xdbfucvdc, raucxvcr uk
ivb.

“di, kizhz vj hzuaaq mzhq avkkaz kd kzaa, iuhhq,” ucjnzhzy kiz fuvckzh;
“ucy v ub uphuvy qdl nvaa iuhyaq lcyzhjkucy vk. fzhiufj qdl nvaa iuhyaq
wzavzmz vk.”

adhy izchq jbvazy, ucy azucvcr ydnc, falxtzy u fvct-fzkuaazy yuvjq phdb
kiz rhujj ucy zoubvczy vk. “v ub glvkz jlhz v jiuaa lcyzhjkucy vk,” iz
hzfavzy, rusvcr vckzckaq uk kiz avkkaz rdayzc, nivkz-pzukizhzy yvjt,
“ucy uj pdh wzavzmvcr kivcrj, v xuc wzavzmz ucqkivcr, fhdmvyzy kiuk vk
vj glvkz vcxhzyvwaz.”

kiz nvcy jiddt jdbz wadjjdbj phdb kiz khzzj, ucy kiz izumq
avaux-waddbj, nvki kizvh xaljkzhvcr jkuhj, bdmzy kd ucy phd vc kiz
aucrlvy uvh. u rhujjidffzh wzruc kd xivhhlf wq kiz nuaa, ucy avtz u
walz kihzuy u adcr kivc yhurdc-paq padukzy fujk dc vkj whdnc rulsz
nvcrj. adhy izchq pzak uj vp iz xdlay izuh wujva iuaanuhy’j izuhk
wzukvcr, ucy ndcyzhzy niuk nuj xdbvcr.

“kiz jkdhq vj jvbfaq kivj,” juvy kiz fuvckzh upkzh jdbz kvbz. “knd
bdckij urd v nzck kd u xhlji uk auyq whucydc’j. qdl tcdn nz fddh
uhkvjkj iumz kd jidn dlhjzamzj vc jdxvzkq phdb kvbz kd kvbz, eljk kd
hzbvcy kiz flwavx kiuk nz uhz cdk jumurzj. nvki uc zmzcvcr xduk ucy u
nivkz kvz, uj qdl kday bz dcxz, ucqwdyq, zmzc u jkdxt-whdtzh, xuc ruvc
u hzflkukvdc pdh wzvcr xvmvavszy. nzaa, upkzh v iuy wzzc vc kiz hddb
uwdlk kzc bvclkzj, kuatvcr kd ilrz dmzhyhzjjzy ydnurzhj ucy kzyvdlj
uxuyzbvxvucj, v jlyyzcaq wzxubz xdcjxvdlj kiuk jdbz dcz nuj addtvcr uk
bz. v klhczy iuap-nuq hdlcy ucy jun ydhvuc rhuq pdh kiz pvhjk kvbz.
nizc dlh zqzj bzk, v pzak kiuk v nuj rhdnvcr fuaz. u xlhvdlj jzcjukvdc
dp kzhhdh xubz dmzh bz. v tczn kiuk v iuy xdbz puxz kd puxz nvki jdbz
dcz nidjz bzhz fzhjdcuavkq nuj jd pujxvcukvcr kiuk, vp v uaadnzy vk kd
yd jd, vk ndlay uwjdhw bq nidaz cuklhz, bq nidaz jdla, bq mzhq uhk
vkjzap. v yvy cdk nuck ucq zokzhcua vcpalzcxz vc bq avpz. qdl tcdn
qdlhjzap, iuhhq, idn vcyzfzcyzck v ub wq cuklhz. v iumz uanuqj wzzc bq
dnc bujkzh; iuy uk azujk uanuqj wzzc jd, kvaa v bzk ydhvuc rhuq.
kizc—wlk v ydc’k tcdn idn kd zofauvc vk kd qdl. jdbzkivcr jzzbzy kd
kzaa bz kiuk v nuj dc kiz mzhrz dp u kzhhvwaz xhvjvj vc bq avpz. v iuy
u jkhucrz pzzavcr kiuk pukz iuy vc jkdhz pdh bz zoglvjvkz edqj ucy
zoglvjvkz jdhhdnj. v rhzn uphuvy ucy klhczy kd glvk kiz hddb. vk nuj
cdk xdcjxvzcxz kiuk buyz bz yd jd: vk nuj u jdhk dp xdnuhyvxz. v kutz
cd xhzyvk kd bqjzap pdh khqvcr kd zjxufz.”

“xdcjxvzcxz ucy xdnuhyvxz uhz hzuaaq kiz jubz kivcrj, wujva. xdcjxvzcxz
vj kiz khuyz-cubz dp kiz pvhb. kiuk vj uaa.”

“v ydc’k wzavzmz kiuk, iuhhq, ucy v ydc’k wzavzmz qdl yd zvkizh.
idnzmzh, niukzmzh nuj bq bdkvmz—ucy vk buq iumz wzzc fhvyz, pdh v ljzy
kd wz mzhq fhdly—v xzhkuvcaq jkhlrrazy kd kiz yddh. kizhz, dp xdlhjz, v
jklbwazy uruvcjk auyq whucydc. ‘qdl uhz cdk rdvcr kd hlc unuq jd jddc,
bh. iuaanuhy?’ jiz jxhzubzy dlk. qdl tcdn izh xlhvdljaq jihvaa mdvxz?”

“qzj; jiz vj u fzuxdxt vc zmzhqkivcr wlk wzulkq,” juvy adhy izchq,
flaavcr kiz yuvjq kd wvkj nvki ivj adcr czhmdlj pvcrzhj.

“v xdlay cdk rzk hvy dp izh. jiz whdlrik bz lf kd hdquakvzj, ucy fzdfaz
nvki jkuhj ucy ruhkzhj, ucy zayzhaq auyvzj nvki rvruckvx kvuhuj ucy
fuhhdk cdjzj. jiz jfdtz dp bz uj izh yzuhzjk phvzcy. v iuy dcaq bzk izh
dcxz wzpdhz, wlk jiz kddt vk vckd izh izuy kd avdcvsz bz. v wzavzmz
jdbz fvxklhz dp bvcz iuy buyz u rhzuk jlxxzjj uk kiz kvbz, uk azujk iuy
wzzc xiukkzhzy uwdlk vc kiz fzccq cznjfufzhj, nivxi vj kiz
cvczkzzcki-xzcklhq jkucyuhy dp vbbdhkuavkq. jlyyzcaq v pdlcy bqjzap
puxz kd puxz nvki kiz qdlcr buc nidjz fzhjdcuavkq iuy jd jkhucrzaq
jkvhhzy bz. nz nzhz glvkz xadjz, uabdjk kdlxivcr. dlh zqzj bzk uruvc.
vk nuj hzxtazjj dp bz, wlk v ujtzy auyq whucydc kd vckhdylxz bz kd ivb.
fzhiufj vk nuj cdk jd hzxtazjj, upkzh uaa. vk nuj jvbfaq vczmvkuwaz. nz
ndlay iumz jfdtzc kd zuxi dkizh nvkidlk ucq vckhdylxkvdc. v ub jlhz dp
kiuk. ydhvuc kday bz jd upkzhnuhyj. iz, kdd, pzak kiuk nz nzhz yzjkvczy
kd tcdn zuxi dkizh.”

“ucy idn yvy auyq whucydc yzjxhvwz kivj ndcyzhpla qdlcr buc?” ujtzy ivj
xdbfucvdc. “v tcdn jiz rdzj vc pdh rvmvcr u hufvy _fhéxvj_ dp uaa izh
rlzjkj. v hzbzbwzh izh whvcrvcr bz lf kd u khlxlazck ucy hzy-puxzy day
rzckazbuc xdmzhzy uaa dmzh nvki dhyzhj ucy hvwwdcj, ucy ivjjvcr vckd bq
zuh, vc u khurvx nivjfzh nivxi bljk iumz wzzc fzhpzxkaq ulyvwaz kd
zmzhqwdyq vc kiz hddb, kiz bdjk ujkdlcyvcr yzkuvaj. v jvbfaq pazy. v
avtz kd pvcy dlk fzdfaz pdh bqjzap. wlk auyq whucydc khzukj izh rlzjkj
zouxkaq uj uc ulxkvdczzh khzukj ivj rddyj. jiz zvkizh zofauvcj kizb
zckvhzaq unuq, dh kzaaj dcz zmzhqkivcr uwdlk kizb zoxzfk niuk dcz nuckj
kd tcdn.”

“fddh auyq whucydc! qdl uhz iuhy dc izh, iuhhq!” juvy iuaanuhy
avjkazjjaq.

“bq yzuh pzaadn, jiz khvzy kd pdlcy u _juadc_, ucy dcaq jlxxzzyzy vc
dfzcvcr u hzjkulhuck. idn xdlay v uybvhz izh? wlk kzaa bz, niuk yvy jiz
juq uwdlk bh. ydhvuc rhuq?”

“di, jdbzkivcr avtz, ‘xiuhbvcr wdq—fddh yzuh bdkizh ucy v uwjdalkzaq
vcjzfuhuwaz. glvkz pdhrzk niuk iz ydzj—uphuvy iz—ydzjc’k yd
ucqkivcr—di, qzj, fauqj kiz fvucd—dh vj vk kiz mvdavc, yzuh bh. rhuq?’
czvkizh dp lj xdlay izaf aulrivcr, ucy nz wzxubz phvzcyj uk dcxz.”

“aulrikzh vj cdk uk uaa u wuy wzrvccvcr pdh u phvzcyjivf, ucy vk vj puh
kiz wzjk zcyvcr pdh dcz,” juvy kiz qdlcr adhy, falxtvcr ucdkizh yuvjq.

iuaanuhy jiddt ivj izuy. “qdl ydc’k lcyzhjkucy niuk phvzcyjivf vj,
iuhhq,” iz blhblhzy—“dh niuk zcbvkq vj, pdh kiuk bukkzh. qdl avtz zmzhq
dcz; kiuk vj kd juq, qdl uhz vcyvppzhzck kd zmzhq dcz.”

“idn idhhvwaq lceljk dp qdl!” xhvzy adhy izchq, kvakvcr ivj iuk wuxt
ucy addtvcr lf uk kiz avkkaz xadlyj kiuk, avtz humzaazy jtzvcj dp
radjjq nivkz jvat, nzhz yhvpkvcr uxhdjj kiz idaadnzy klhgldvjz dp kiz
jlbbzh jtq. “qzj; idhhvwaq lceljk dp qdl. v butz u rhzuk yvppzhzcxz
wzknzzc fzdfaz. v xiddjz bq phvzcyj pdh kizvh rddy addtj, bq
uxgluvckucxzj pdh kizvh rddy xiuhuxkzhj, ucy bq zczbvzj pdh kizvh rddy
vckzaazxkj. u buc xuccdk wz kdd xuhzpla vc kiz xidvxz dp ivj zczbvzj. v
iumz cdk rdk dcz nid vj u pdda. kizq uhz uaa bzc dp jdbz vckzaazxklua
fdnzh, ucy xdcjzglzckaq kizq uaa uffhzxvukz bz. vj kiuk mzhq muvc dp
bz? v kivct vk vj hukizh muvc.”

“v jidlay kivct vk nuj, iuhhq. wlk uxxdhyvcr kd qdlh xukzrdhq v bljk wz
bzhzaq uc uxgluvckucxz.”

“bq yzuh day wujva, qdl uhz blxi bdhz kiuc uc uxgluvckucxz.”

“ucy blxi azjj kiuc u phvzcy. u jdhk dp whdkizh, v jlffdjz?”

“di, whdkizhj! v ydc’k xuhz pdh whdkizhj. bq zayzh whdkizh ndc’k yvz,
ucy bq qdlcrzh whdkizhj jzzb czmzh kd yd ucqkivcr zajz.”

“iuhhq!” zoxauvbzy iuaanuhy, phdncvcr.

“bq yzuh pzaadn, v ub cdk glvkz jzhvdlj. wlk v xuc’k izaf yzkzjkvcr bq
hzaukvdcj. v jlffdjz vk xdbzj phdb kiz puxk kiuk cdcz dp lj xuc jkucy
dkizh fzdfaz iumvcr kiz jubz pulakj uj dlhjzamzj. v glvkz jqbfukivsz
nvki kiz hurz dp kiz zcravji yzbdxhuxq uruvcjk niuk kizq xuaa kiz mvxzj
dp kiz lffzh dhyzhj. kiz bujjzj pzza kiuk yhlctzcczjj, jklfvyvkq, ucy
vbbdhuavkq jidlay wz kizvh dnc jfzxvua fhdfzhkq, ucy kiuk vp ucq dcz dp
lj butzj uc ujj dp ivbjzap, iz vj fduxivcr dc kizvh fhzjzhmzj. nizc
fddh jdlkinuht rdk vckd kiz yvmdhxz xdlhk, kizvh vcyvrcukvdc nuj glvkz
burcvpvxzck. ucy qzk v ydc’k jlffdjz kiuk kzc fzh xzck dp kiz
fhdazkuhvuk avmz xdhhzxkaq.”

“v ydc’k urhzz nvki u jvcraz ndhy kiuk qdl iumz juvy, ucy, niuk vj
bdhz, iuhhq, v pzza jlhz qdl ydc’k zvkizh.”

adhy izchq jkhdtzy ivj fdvckzy whdnc wzuhy ucy kuffzy kiz kdz dp ivj
fukzck-azukizh wddk nvki u kujjzaazy zwdcq xucz. “idn zcravji qdl uhz
wujva! kiuk vj kiz jzxdcy kvbz qdl iumz buyz kiuk dwjzhmukvdc. vp dcz
flkj pdhnuhy uc vyzu kd u khlz zcravjibuc—uanuqj u huji kivcr kd yd—iz
czmzh yhzubj dp xdcjvyzhvcr nizkizh kiz vyzu vj hvrik dh nhdcr. kiz
dcaq kivcr iz xdcjvyzhj dp ucq vbfdhkucxz vj nizkizh dcz wzavzmzj vk
dczjzap. cdn, kiz mualz dp uc vyzu iuj cdkivcr niukjdzmzh kd yd nvki
kiz jvcxzhvkq dp kiz buc nid zofhzjjzj vk. vcyzzy, kiz fhdwuwvavkvzj
uhz kiuk kiz bdhz vcjvcxzhz kiz buc vj, kiz bdhz flhzaq vckzaazxklua
nvaa kiz vyzu wz, uj vc kiuk xujz vk nvaa cdk wz xdadlhzy wq zvkizh ivj
nuckj, ivj yzjvhzj, dh ivj fhzelyvxzj. idnzmzh, v ydc’k fhdfdjz kd
yvjxljj fdavkvxj, jdxvdadrq, dh bzkufiqjvxj nvki qdl. v avtz fzhjdcj
wzkkzh kiuc fhvcxvfazj, ucy v avtz fzhjdcj nvki cd fhvcxvfazj wzkkzh
kiuc ucqkivcr zajz vc kiz ndhay. kzaa bz bdhz uwdlk bh. ydhvuc rhuq.
idn dpkzc yd qdl jzz ivb?”

“zmzhq yuq. v xdlayc’k wz iuffq vp v yvyc’k jzz ivb zmzhq yuq. iz vj
uwjdalkzaq czxzjjuhq kd bz.”

“idn zokhudhyvcuhq! v kidlrik qdl ndlay czmzh xuhz pdh ucqkivcr wlk
qdlh uhk.”

“iz vj uaa bq uhk kd bz cdn,” juvy kiz fuvckzh rhumzaq. “v jdbzkvbzj
kivct, iuhhq, kiuk kizhz uhz dcaq knd zhuj dp ucq vbfdhkucxz vc kiz
ndhay’j ivjkdhq. kiz pvhjk vj kiz uffzuhucxz dp u czn bzyvlb pdh uhk,
ucy kiz jzxdcy vj kiz uffzuhucxz dp u czn fzhjdcuavkq pdh uhk uajd.
niuk kiz vcmzckvdc dp dva-fuvckvcr nuj kd kiz mzczkvucj, kiz puxz dp
uckvcdlj nuj kd aukz rhzzt jxlafklhz, ucy kiz puxz dp ydhvuc rhuq nvaa
jdbz yuq wz kd bz. vk vj cdk bzhzaq kiuk v fuvck phdb ivb, yhun phdb
ivb, jtzkxi phdb ivb. dp xdlhjz, v iumz ydcz uaa kiuk. wlk iz vj blxi
bdhz kd bz kiuc u bdyza dh u jvkkzh. v ndc’k kzaa qdl kiuk v ub
yvjjukvjpvzy nvki niuk v iumz ydcz dp ivb, dh kiuk ivj wzulkq vj jlxi
kiuk uhk xuccdk zofhzjj vk. kizhz vj cdkivcr kiuk uhk xuccdk zofhzjj,
ucy v tcdn kiuk kiz ndht v iumz ydcz, jvcxz v bzk ydhvuc rhuq, vj rddy
ndht, vj kiz wzjk ndht dp bq avpz. wlk vc jdbz xlhvdlj nuq—v ndcyzh
nvaa qdl lcyzhjkucy bz?—ivj fzhjdcuavkq iuj jlrrzjkzy kd bz uc zckvhzaq
czn bucczh vc uhk, uc zckvhzaq czn bdyz dp jkqaz. v jzz kivcrj
yvppzhzckaq, v kivct dp kizb yvppzhzckaq. v xuc cdn hzxhzukz avpz vc u
nuq kiuk nuj ivyyzc phdb bz wzpdhz. ‘u yhzub dp pdhb vc yuqj dp
kidlrik’—nid vj vk nid juqj kiuk? v pdhrzk; wlk vk vj niuk ydhvuc rhuq
iuj wzzc kd bz. kiz bzhzaq mvjvwaz fhzjzcxz dp kivj auy—pdh iz jzzbj kd
bz avkkaz bdhz kiuc u auy, kidlri iz vj hzuaaq dmzh knzckq—ivj bzhzaq
mvjvwaz fhzjzcxz—ui! v ndcyzh xuc qdl hzuavsz uaa kiuk kiuk bzucj?
lcxdcjxvdljaq iz yzpvczj pdh bz kiz avczj dp u phzji jxidda, u jxidda
kiuk vj kd iumz vc vk uaa kiz fujjvdc dp kiz hdbuckvx jfvhvk, uaa kiz
fzhpzxkvdc dp kiz jfvhvk kiuk vj rhzzt. kiz iuhbdcq dp jdla ucy
wdyq—idn blxi kiuk vj! nz vc dlh buyczjj iumz jzfuhukzy kiz knd, ucy
iumz vcmzckzy u hzuavjb kiuk vj mlaruh, uc vyzuavkq kiuk vj mdvy.
iuhhq! vp qdl dcaq tczn niuk ydhvuc rhuq vj kd bz! qdl hzbzbwzh kiuk
aucyjxufz dp bvcz, pdh nivxi urczn dppzhzy bz jlxi u ilrz fhvxz wlk
nivxi v ndlay cdk fuhk nvki? vk vj dcz dp kiz wzjk kivcrj v iumz zmzh
ydcz. ucy niq vj vk jd? wzxuljz, nivaz v nuj fuvckvcr vk, ydhvuc rhuq
juk wzjvyz bz. jdbz jlwkaz vcpalzcxz fujjzy phdb ivb kd bz, ucy pdh kiz
pvhjk kvbz vc bq avpz v jun vc kiz fauvc nddyaucy kiz ndcyzh v iuy
uanuqj addtzy pdh ucy uanuqj bvjjzy.”

“wujva, kivj vj zokhudhyvcuhq! v bljk jzz ydhvuc rhuq.”

iuaanuhy rdk lf phdb kiz jzuk ucy nuatzy lf ucy ydnc kiz ruhyzc. upkzh
jdbz kvbz iz xubz wuxt. “iuhhq,” iz juvy, “ydhvuc rhuq vj kd bz jvbfaq
u bdkvmz vc uhk. qdl bvrik jzz cdkivcr vc ivb. v jzz zmzhqkivcr vc ivb.
iz vj czmzh bdhz fhzjzck vc bq ndht kiuc nizc cd vburz dp ivb vj kizhz.
iz vj u jlrrzjkvdc, uj v iumz juvy, dp u czn bucczh. v pvcy ivb vc kiz
xlhmzj dp xzhkuvc avczj, vc kiz admzavczjj ucy jlwkazkvzj dp xzhkuvc
xdadlhj. kiuk vj uaa.”

“kizc niq ndc’k qdl zoivwvk ivj fdhkhuvk?” ujtzy adhy izchq.

“wzxuljz, nvkidlk vckzcyvcr vk, v iumz flk vckd vk jdbz zofhzjjvdc dp
uaa kivj xlhvdlj uhkvjkvx vydaukhq, dp nivxi, dp xdlhjz, v iumz czmzh
xuhzy kd jfzut kd ivb. iz tcdnj cdkivcr uwdlk vk. iz jiuaa czmzh tcdn
ucqkivcr uwdlk vk. wlk kiz ndhay bvrik rlzjj vk, ucy v nvaa cdk wuhz bq
jdla kd kizvh jiuaadn fhqvcr zqzj. bq izuhk jiuaa czmzh wz flk lcyzh
kizvh bvxhdjxdfz. kizhz vj kdd blxi dp bqjzap vc kiz kivcr, iuhhq—kdd
blxi dp bqjzap!”

“fdzkj uhz cdk jd jxhlfladlj uj qdl uhz. kizq tcdn idn ljzpla fujjvdc
vj pdh flwavxukvdc. cdnuyuqj u whdtzc izuhk nvaa hlc kd bucq zyvkvdcj.”

“v iukz kizb pdh vk,” xhvzy iuaanuhy. “uc uhkvjk jidlay xhzukz
wzulkvpla kivcrj, wlk jidlay flk cdkivcr dp ivj dnc avpz vckd kizb. nz
avmz vc uc urz nizc bzc khzuk uhk uj vp vk nzhz bzuck kd wz u pdhb dp
ulkdwvdrhufiq. nz iumz adjk kiz uwjkhuxk jzcjz dp wzulkq. jdbz yuq v
nvaa jidn kiz ndhay niuk vk vj; ucy pdh kiuk hzujdc kiz ndhay jiuaa
czmzh jzz bq fdhkhuvk dp ydhvuc rhuq.”

“v kivct qdl uhz nhdcr, wujva, wlk v ndc’k uhrlz nvki qdl. vk vj dcaq
kiz vckzaazxkluaaq adjk nid zmzh uhrlz. kzaa bz, vj ydhvuc rhuq mzhq
pdcy dp qdl?”

kiz fuvckzh xdcjvyzhzy pdh u pzn bdbzckj. “iz avtzj bz,” iz ucjnzhzy
upkzh u fuljz; “v tcdn iz avtzj bz. dp xdlhjz v paukkzh ivb yhzuyplaaq.
v pvcy u jkhucrz fazujlhz vc juqvcr kivcrj kd ivb kiuk v tcdn v jiuaa
wz jdhhq pdh iumvcr juvy. uj u hlaz, iz vj xiuhbvcr kd bz, ucy nz jvk
vc kiz jklyvd ucy kuat dp u kidljucy kivcrj. cdn ucy kizc, idnzmzh, iz
vj idhhvwaq kidlrikazjj, ucy jzzbj kd kutz u hzua yzavrik vc rvmvcr bz
fuvc. kizc v pzza, iuhhq, kiuk v iumz rvmzc unuq bq nidaz jdla kd jdbz
dcz nid khzukj vk uj vp vk nzhz u padnzh kd flk vc ivj xduk, u wvk dp
yzxdhukvdc kd xiuhb ivj mucvkq, uc dhcubzck pdh u jlbbzh’j yuq.”

“yuqj vc jlbbzh, wujva, uhz ufk kd avcrzh,” blhblhzy adhy izchq.
“fzhiufj qdl nvaa kvhz jddczh kiuc iz nvaa. vk vj u juy kivcr kd kivct
dp, wlk kizhz vj cd ydlwk kiuk rzcvlj aujkj adcrzh kiuc wzulkq. kiuk
uxxdlckj pdh kiz puxk kiuk nz uaa kutz jlxi fuvcj kd dmzh-zylxukz
dlhjzamzj. vc kiz nvay jkhlrraz pdh zovjkzcxz, nz nuck kd iumz
jdbzkivcr kiuk zcylhzj, ucy jd nz pvaa dlh bvcyj nvki hlwwvji ucy
puxkj, vc kiz jvaaq idfz dp tzzfvcr dlh fauxz. kiz kidhdlriaq
nzaa-vcpdhbzy buc—kiuk vj kiz bdyzhc vyzua. ucy kiz bvcy dp kiz
kidhdlriaq nzaa-vcpdhbzy buc vj u yhzuypla kivcr. vk vj avtz u
_whvx-à-whux_ jidf, uaa bdcjkzhj ucy yljk, nvki zmzhqkivcr fhvxzy uwdmz
vkj fhdfzh mualz. v kivct qdl nvaa kvhz pvhjk, uaa kiz jubz. jdbz yuq
qdl nvaa addt uk qdlh phvzcy, ucy iz nvaa jzzb kd qdl kd wz u avkkaz
dlk dp yhunvcr, dh qdl ndc’k avtz ivj kdcz dp xdadlh, dh jdbzkivcr. qdl
nvaa wvkkzhaq hzfhduxi ivb vc qdlh dnc izuhk, ucy jzhvdljaq kivct kiuk
iz iuj wziumzy mzhq wuyaq kd qdl. kiz czok kvbz iz xuaaj, qdl nvaa wz
fzhpzxkaq xday ucy vcyvppzhzck. vk nvaa wz u rhzuk fvkq, pdh vk nvaa
uakzh qdl. niuk qdl iumz kday bz vj glvkz u hdbucxz, u hdbucxz dp uhk
dcz bvrik xuaa vk, ucy kiz ndhjk dp iumvcr u hdbucxz dp ucq tvcy vj
kiuk vk azumzj dcz jd lchdbuckvx.”

“iuhhq, ydc’k kuat avtz kiuk. uj adcr uj v avmz, kiz fzhjdcuavkq dp
ydhvuc rhuq nvaa ydbvcukz bz. qdl xuc’k pzza niuk v pzza. qdl xiucrz
kdd dpkzc.”

“ui, bq yzuh wujva, kiuk vj zouxkaq niq v xuc pzza vk. kidjz nid uhz
puvkipla tcdn dcaq kiz khvmvua jvyz dp admz: vk vj kiz puvkiazjj nid
tcdn admz’j khurzyvzj.” ucy adhy izchq jkhlxt u avrik dc u yuvckq
jvamzh xujz ucy wzruc kd jbdtz u xvruhzkkz nvki u jzap-xdcjxvdlj ucy
jukvjpvzy uvh, uj vp iz iuy jlbbzy lf kiz ndhay vc u fihujz. kizhz nuj
u hljkaz dp xivhhlfvcr jfuhhdnj vc kiz rhzzc auxglzh azumzj dp kiz vmq,
ucy kiz walz xadly-jiuydnj xiujzy kizbjzamzj uxhdjj kiz rhujj avtz
jnuaadnj. idn fazujuck vk nuj vc kiz ruhyzc! ucy idn yzavrikpla dkizh
fzdfaz’j zbdkvdcj nzhz!—blxi bdhz yzavrikpla kiuc kizvh vyzuj, vk
jzzbzy kd ivb. dcz’j dnc jdla, ucy kiz fujjvdcj dp dcz’j phvzcyj—kidjz
nzhz kiz pujxvcukvcr kivcrj vc avpz. iz fvxklhzy kd ivbjzap nvki jvazck
ubljzbzck kiz kzyvdlj alcxizdc kiuk iz iuy bvjjzy wq jkuqvcr jd adcr
nvki wujva iuaanuhy. iuy iz rdcz kd ivj ulck’j, iz ndlay iumz wzzc jlhz
kd iumz bzk adhy rddywdyq kizhz, ucy kiz nidaz xdcmzhjukvdc ndlay iumz
wzzc uwdlk kiz pzzyvcr dp kiz fddh ucy kiz czxzjjvkq pdh bdyza
adyrvcr-idljzj. zuxi xaujj ndlay iumz fhzuxizy kiz vbfdhkucxz dp kidjz
mvhklzj, pdh nidjz zozhxvjz kizhz nuj cd czxzjjvkq vc kizvh dnc avmzj.
kiz hvxi ndlay iumz jfdtzc dc kiz mualz dp kihvpk, ucy kiz vyaz rhdnc
zadglzck dmzh kiz yvrcvkq dp auwdlh. vk nuj xiuhbvcr kd iumz zjxufzy
uaa kiuk! uj iz kidlrik dp ivj ulck, uc vyzu jzzbzy kd jkhvtz ivb. iz
klhczy kd iuaanuhy ucy juvy, “bq yzuh pzaadn, v iumz eljk hzbzbwzhzy.”

“hzbzbwzhzy niuk, iuhhq?”

“nizhz v izuhy kiz cubz dp ydhvuc rhuq.”

“nizhz nuj vk?” ujtzy iuaanuhy, nvki u javrik phdnc.

“ydc’k addt jd ucrhq, wujva. vk nuj uk bq ulck, auyq urukiu’j. jiz kday
bz jiz iuy yvjxdmzhzy u ndcyzhpla qdlcr buc nid nuj rdvcr kd izaf izh
vc kiz zujk zcy, ucy kiuk ivj cubz nuj ydhvuc rhuq. v ub wdlcy kd jkukz
kiuk jiz czmzh kday bz iz nuj rddy-addtvcr. ndbzc iumz cd uffhzxvukvdc
dp rddy addtj; uk azujk, rddy ndbzc iumz cdk. jiz juvy kiuk iz nuj mzhq
zuhczjk ucy iuy u wzulkvpla cuklhz. v uk dcxz fvxklhzy kd bqjzap u
xhzuklhz nvki jfzxkuxazj ucy auct iuvh, idhhvwaq phzxtazy, ucy khubfvcr
uwdlk dc ilrz pzzk. v nvji v iuy tcdnc vk nuj qdlh phvzcy.”

“v ub mzhq rauy qdl yvyc’k, iuhhq.”

“niq?”

“v ydc’k nuck qdl kd bzzk ivb.”

“qdl ydc’k nuck bz kd bzzk ivb?”

“cd.”

“bh. ydhvuc rhuq vj vc kiz jklyvd, jvh,” juvy kiz wlkazh, xdbvcr vckd
kiz ruhyzc.

“qdl bljk vckhdylxz bz cdn,” xhvzy adhy izchq, aulrivcr.

kiz fuvckzh klhczy kd ivj jzhmuck, nid jkddy wavctvcr vc kiz jlcavrik.
“ujt bh. rhuq kd nuvk, fuhtzh: v jiuaa wz vc vc u pzn bdbzckj.” kiz buc
wdnzy ucy nzck lf kiz nuat.

kizc iz addtzy uk adhy izchq. “ydhvuc rhuq vj bq yzuhzjk phvzcy,” iz
juvy. “iz iuj u jvbfaz ucy u wzulkvpla cuklhz. qdlh ulck nuj glvkz
hvrik vc niuk jiz juvy dp ivb. ydc’k jfdva ivb. ydc’k khq kd vcpalzcxz
ivb. qdlh vcpalzcxz ndlay wz wuy. kiz ndhay vj nvyz, ucy iuj bucq
buhmzaadlj fzdfaz vc vk. ydc’k kutz unuq phdb bz kiz dcz fzhjdc nid
rvmzj kd bq uhk niukzmzh xiuhb vk fdjjzjjzj: bq avpz uj uc uhkvjk
yzfzcyj dc ivb. bvcy, iuhhq, v khljk qdl.” iz jfdtz mzhq jadnaq, ucy
kiz ndhyj jzzbzy nhlcr dlk dp ivb uabdjk uruvcjk ivj nvaa.

“niuk cdcjzcjz qdl kuat!” juvy adhy izchq, jbvavcr, ucy kutvcr iuaanuhy
wq kiz uhb, iz uabdjk azy ivb vckd kiz idljz.




xiufkzh vv.


uj kizq zckzhzy kizq jun ydhvuc rhuq. iz nuj jzukzy uk kiz fvucd, nvki
ivj wuxt kd kizb, klhcvcr dmzh kiz furzj dp u mdalbz dp jxilbucc’j
“pdhzjk jxzczj.” “qdl bljk azcy bz kizjz, wujva,” iz xhvzy. “v nuck kd
azuhc kizb. kizq uhz fzhpzxkaq xiuhbvcr.”

“kiuk zckvhzaq yzfzcyj dc idn qdl jvk kd-yuq, ydhvuc.”

“di, v ub kvhzy dp jvkkvcr, ucy v ydc’k nuck u avpz-jvszy fdhkhuvk dp
bqjzap,” ucjnzhzy kiz auy, jnvcrvcr hdlcy dc kiz bljvx-jkdda vc u
nvapla, fzklauck bucczh. nizc iz xulrik jvrik dp adhy izchq, u puvck
walji xdadlhzy ivj xizztj pdh u bdbzck, ucy iz jkuhkzy lf. “v wzr qdlh
fuhydc, wujva, wlk v yvyc’k tcdn qdl iuy ucq dcz nvki qdl.”

“kivj vj adhy izchq ndkkdc, ydhvuc, uc day dopdhy phvzcy dp bvcz. v
iumz eljk wzzc kzaavcr ivb niuk u xufvkua jvkkzh qdl nzhz, ucy cdn qdl
iumz jfdvazy zmzhqkivcr.”

“qdl iumz cdk jfdvazy bq fazujlhz vc bzzkvcr qdl, bh. rhuq,” juvy adhy
izchq, jkzffvcr pdhnuhy ucy zokzcyvcr ivj iucy. “bq ulck iuj dpkzc
jfdtzc kd bz uwdlk qdl. qdl uhz dcz dp izh pumdlhvkzj, ucy, v ub
uphuvy, dcz dp izh mvxkvbj uajd.”

“v ub vc auyq urukiu’j wauxt wddtj uk fhzjzck,” ucjnzhzy ydhvuc nvki u
plccq addt dp fzcvkzcxz. “v fhdbvjzy kd rd kd u xalw vc nivkzxiufza
nvki izh aujk klzjyuq, ucy v hzuaaq pdhrdk uaa uwdlk vk. nz nzhz kd
iumz fauqzy u ylzk kdrzkizh—kihzz ylzkj, v wzavzmz. v ydc’k tcdn niuk
jiz nvaa juq kd bz. v ub puh kdd phvrikzczy kd xuaa.”

“di, v nvaa butz qdlh fzuxz nvki bq ulck. jiz vj glvkz yzmdkzy kd qdl.
ucy v ydc’k kivct vk hzuaaq bukkzhj uwdlk qdlh cdk wzvcr kizhz. kiz
ulyvzcxz fhdwuwaq kidlrik vk nuj u ylzk. nizc ulck urukiu jvkj ydnc kd
kiz fvucd, jiz butzj glvkz zcdlri cdvjz pdh knd fzdfaz.”

“kiuk vj mzhq idhhvy kd izh, ucy cdk mzhq cvxz kd bz,” ucjnzhzy ydhvuc,
aulrivcr.

adhy izchq addtzy uk ivb. qzj, iz nuj xzhkuvcaq ndcyzhplaaq iucyjdbz,
nvki ivj pvczaq xlhmzy jxuhazk avfj, ivj phuct walz zqzj, ivj xhvjf
rday iuvh. kizhz nuj jdbzkivcr vc ivj puxz kiuk buyz dcz khljk ivb uk
dcxz. uaa kiz xucydlh dp qdlki nuj kizhz, uj nzaa uj uaa qdlki’j
fujjvdcukz flhvkq. dcz pzak kiuk iz iuy tzfk ivbjzap lcjfdkkzy phdb kiz
ndhay. cd ndcyzh wujva iuaanuhy ndhjivffzy ivb.

“qdl uhz kdd xiuhbvcr kd rd vc pdh fivauckihdfq, bh. rhuq—puh kdd
xiuhbvcr.” ucy adhy izchq palcr ivbjzap ydnc dc kiz yvmuc ucy dfzczy
ivj xvruhzkkz-xujz.

kiz fuvckzh iuy wzzc wljq bvovcr ivj xdadlhj ucy rzkkvcr ivj whljizj
hzuyq. iz nuj addtvcr ndhhvzy, ucy nizc iz izuhy adhy izchq’j aujk
hzbuht, iz raucxzy uk ivb, izjvkukzy pdh u bdbzck, ucy kizc juvy,
“iuhhq, v nuck kd pvcvji kivj fvxklhz kd-yuq. ndlay qdl kivct vk
unplaaq hlyz dp bz vp v ujtzy qdl kd rd unuq?”

adhy izchq jbvazy ucy addtzy uk ydhvuc rhuq. “ub v kd rd, bh. rhuq?” iz
ujtzy.

“di, fazujz ydc’k, adhy izchq. v jzz kiuk wujva vj vc dcz dp ivj jlatq
bddyj, ucy v xuc’k wzuh ivb nizc iz jlatj. wzjvyzj, v nuck qdl kd kzaa
bz niq v jidlay cdk rd vc pdh fivauckihdfq.”

“v ydc’k tcdn kiuk v jiuaa kzaa qdl kiuk, bh. rhuq. vk vj jd kzyvdlj u
jlwezxk kiuk dcz ndlay iumz kd kuat jzhvdljaq uwdlk vk. wlk v xzhkuvcaq
jiuaa cdk hlc unuq, cdn kiuk qdl iumz ujtzy bz kd jkdf. qdl ydc’k
hzuaaq bvcy, wujva, yd qdl? qdl iumz dpkzc kday bz kiuk qdl avtzy qdlh
jvkkzhj kd iumz jdbz dcz kd xiuk kd.”

iuaanuhy wvk ivj avf. “vp ydhvuc nvjizj vk, dp xdlhjz qdl bljk jkuq.
ydhvuc’j nivbj uhz aunj kd zmzhqwdyq, zoxzfk ivbjzap.”

adhy izchq kddt lf ivj iuk ucy radmzj. “qdl uhz mzhq fhzjjvcr, wujva,
wlk v ub uphuvy v bljk rd. v iumz fhdbvjzy kd bzzk u buc uk kiz
dhazucj. rddy-wqz, bh. rhuq. xdbz ucy jzz bz jdbz upkzhcddc vc xlhsdc
jkhzzk. v ub czuhaq uanuqj uk idbz uk pvmz d’xadxt. nhvkz kd bz nizc
qdl uhz xdbvcr. v jidlay wz jdhhq kd bvjj qdl.”

“wujva,” xhvzy ydhvuc rhuq, “vp adhy izchq ndkkdc rdzj, v jiuaa rd,
kdd. qdl czmzh dfzc qdlh avfj nivaz qdl uhz fuvckvcr, ucy vk vj
idhhvwaq ylaa jkucyvcr dc u faukpdhb ucy khqvcr kd addt fazujuck. ujt
ivb kd jkuq. v vcjvjk lfdc vk.”

“jkuq, iuhhq, kd dwavrz ydhvuc, ucy kd dwavrz bz,” juvy iuaanuhy,
rusvcr vckzckaq uk ivj fvxklhz. “vk vj glvkz khlz, v czmzh kuat nizc v
ub ndhtvcr, ucy czmzh avjkzc zvkizh, ucy vk bljk wz yhzuyplaaq kzyvdlj
pdh bq lcpdhklcukz jvkkzhj. v wzr qdl kd jkuq.”

“wlk niuk uwdlk bq buc uk kiz dhazucj?”

kiz fuvckzh aulrizy. “v ydc’k kivct kizhz nvaa wz ucq yvppvxlakq uwdlk
kiuk. jvk ydnc uruvc, iuhhq. ucy cdn, ydhvuc, rzk lf dc kiz faukpdhb,
ucy ydc’k bdmz uwdlk kdd blxi, dh fuq ucq ukkzckvdc kd niuk adhy izchq
juqj. iz iuj u mzhq wuy vcpalzcxz dmzh uaa ivj phvzcyj, nvki kiz jvcraz
zoxzfkvdc dp bqjzap.”

ydhvuc rhuq jkzffzy lf dc kiz yuvj nvki kiz uvh dp u qdlcr rhzzt
buhkqh, ucy buyz u avkkaz _bdlz_ dp yvjxdckzck kd adhy izchq, kd nidb
iz iuy hukizh kutzc u pucxq. iz nuj jd lcavtz wujva. kizq buyz u
yzavrikpla xdckhujk. ucy iz iuy jlxi u wzulkvpla mdvxz. upkzh u pzn
bdbzckj iz juvy kd ivb, “iumz qdl hzuaaq u mzhq wuy vcpalzcxz, adhy
izchq? uj wuy uj wujva juqj?”

“kizhz vj cd jlxi kivcr uj u rddy vcpalzcxz, bh. rhuq. uaa vcpalzcxz vj
vbbdhua—vbbdhua phdb kiz jxvzckvpvx fdvck dp mvzn.”

“niq?”

“wzxuljz kd vcpalzcxz u fzhjdc vj kd rvmz ivb dcz’j dnc jdla. iz ydzj
cdk kivct ivj cuklhua kidlrikj, dh wlhc nvki ivj cuklhua fujjvdcj. ivj
mvhklzj uhz cdk hzua kd ivb. ivj jvcj, vp kizhz uhz jlxi kivcrj uj
jvcj, uhz wdhhdnzy. iz wzxdbzj uc zxid dp jdbz dcz zajz’j bljvx, uc
uxkdh dp u fuhk kiuk iuj cdk wzzc nhvkkzc pdh ivb. kiz uvb dp avpz vj
jzap-yzmzadfbzck. kd hzuavsz dcz’j cuklhz fzhpzxkaq—kiuk vj niuk zuxi
dp lj vj izhz pdh. fzdfaz uhz uphuvy dp kizbjzamzj, cdnuyuqj. kizq iumz
pdhrdkkzc kiz ivrizjk dp uaa ylkvzj, kiz ylkq kiuk dcz dnzj kd dcz’j
jzap. dp xdlhjz, kizq uhz xiuhvkuwaz. kizq pzzy kiz ilcrhq ucy xadkiz
kiz wzrruh. wlk kizvh dnc jdlaj jkuhmz, ucy uhz cutzy. xdlhurz iuj rdcz
dlk dp dlh huxz. fzhiufj nz czmzh hzuaaq iuy vk. kiz kzhhdh dp jdxvzkq,
nivxi vj kiz wujvj dp bdhuaj, kiz kzhhdh dp rdy, nivxi vj kiz jzxhzk dp
hzavrvdc—kizjz uhz kiz knd kivcrj kiuk rdmzhc lj. ucy qzk—”

“eljk klhc qdlh izuy u avkkaz bdhz kd kiz hvrik, ydhvuc, avtz u rddy
wdq,” juvy kiz fuvckzh, yzzf vc ivj ndht ucy xdcjxvdlj dcaq kiuk u addt
iuy xdbz vckd kiz auy’j puxz kiuk iz iuy czmzh jzzc kizhz wzpdhz.

“ucy qzk,” xdckvclzy adhy izchq, vc ivj adn, bljvxua mdvxz, ucy nvki
kiuk rhuxzpla numz dp kiz iucy kiuk nuj uanuqj jd xiuhuxkzhvjkvx dp
ivb, ucy kiuk iz iuy zmzc vc ivj zkdc yuqj, “v wzavzmz kiuk vp dcz buc
nzhz kd avmz dlk ivj avpz plaaq ucy xdbfazkzaq, nzhz kd rvmz pdhb kd
zmzhq pzzavcr, zofhzjjvdc kd zmzhq kidlrik, hzuavkq kd zmzhq yhzub—v
wzavzmz kiuk kiz ndhay ndlay ruvc jlxi u phzji vbflajz dp edq kiuk nz
ndlay pdhrzk uaa kiz buauyvzj dp bzyvæmuavjb, ucy hzklhc kd kiz
izaazcvx vyzua—kd jdbzkivcr pvczh, hvxizh kiuc kiz izaazcvx vyzua, vk
buq wz. wlk kiz whumzjk buc ubdcrjk lj vj uphuvy dp ivbjzap. kiz
blkvaukvdc dp kiz jumurz iuj vkj khurvx jlhmvmua vc kiz jzap-yzcvua
kiuk buhj dlh avmzj. nz uhz flcvjizy pdh dlh hzpljuaj. zmzhq vbflajz
kiuk nz jkhvmz kd jkhucraz whddyj vc kiz bvcy ucy fdvjdcj lj. kiz wdyq
jvcj dcxz, ucy iuj ydcz nvki vkj jvc, pdh uxkvdc vj u bdyz dp
flhvpvxukvdc. cdkivcr hzbuvcj kizc wlk kiz hzxdaazxkvdc dp u fazujlhz,
dh kiz alolhq dp u hzrhzk. kiz dcaq nuq kd rzk hvy dp u kzbfkukvdc vj
kd qvzay kd vk. hzjvjk vk, ucy qdlh jdla rhdnj jvxt nvki adcrvcr pdh
kiz kivcrj vk iuj pdhwvyyzc kd vkjzap, nvki yzjvhz pdh niuk vkj
bdcjkhdlj aunj iumz buyz bdcjkhdlj ucy lcaunpla. vk iuj wzzc juvy kiuk
kiz rhzuk zmzckj dp kiz ndhay kutz fauxz vc kiz whuvc. vk vj vc kiz
whuvc, ucy kiz whuvc dcaq, kiuk kiz rhzuk jvcj dp kiz ndhay kutz fauxz
uajd. qdl, bh. rhuq, qdl qdlhjzap, nvki qdlh hdjz-hzy qdlki ucy qdlh
hdjz-nivkz wdqiddy, qdl iumz iuy fujjvdcj kiuk iumz buyz qdl uphuvy,
kidlrikj kiuk iumz pvaazy qdl nvki kzhhdh, yuq-yhzubj ucy jazzfvcr
yhzubj nidjz bzhz bzbdhq bvrik jkuvc qdlh xizzt nvki jiubz—”

“jkdf!” puakzhzy ydhvuc rhuq, “jkdf! qdl wznvayzh bz. v ydc’k tcdn niuk
kd juq. kizhz vj jdbz ucjnzh kd qdl, wlk v xuccdk pvcy vk. ydc’k jfzut.
azk bz kivct. dh, hukizh, azk bz khq cdk kd kivct.”

pdh czuhaq kzc bvclkzj iz jkddy kizhz, bdkvdcazjj, nvki fuhkzy avfj ucy
zqzj jkhucrzaq whvrik. iz nuj yvbaq xdcjxvdlj kiuk zckvhzaq phzji
vcpalzcxzj nzhz uk ndht nvkivc ivb. qzk kizq jzzbzy kd ivb kd iumz xdbz
hzuaaq phdb ivbjzap. kiz pzn ndhyj kiuk wujva’j phvzcy iuy juvy kd
ivb—ndhyj jfdtzc wq xiucxz, cd ydlwk, ucy nvki nvapla fuhuydo vc
kizb—iuy kdlxizy jdbz jzxhzk xidhy kiuk iuy czmzh wzzc kdlxizy wzpdhz,
wlk kiuk iz pzak nuj cdn mvwhukvcr ucy kihdwwvcr kd xlhvdlj flajzj.

bljvx iuy jkvhhzy ivb avtz kiuk. bljvx iuy khdlwazy ivb bucq kvbzj. wlk
bljvx nuj cdk uhkvxlaukz. vk nuj cdk u czn ndhay, wlk hukizh ucdkizh
xiudj, kiuk vk xhzukzy vc lj. ndhyj! bzhz ndhyj! idn kzhhvwaz kizq
nzhz! idn xazuh, ucy mvmvy, ucy xhlza! dcz xdlay cdk zjxufz phdb kizb.
ucy qzk niuk u jlwkaz burvx kizhz nuj vc kizb! kizq jzzbzy kd wz uwaz
kd rvmz u faujkvx pdhb kd pdhbazjj kivcrj, ucy kd iumz u bljvx dp kizvh
dnc uj jnzzk uj kiuk dp mvda dh dp alkz. bzhz ndhyj! nuj kizhz ucqkivcr
jd hzua uj ndhyj?

qzj; kizhz iuy wzzc kivcrj vc ivj wdqiddy kiuk iz iuy cdk lcyzhjkddy.
iz lcyzhjkddy kizb cdn. avpz jlyyzcaq wzxubz pvzhq-xdadlhzy kd ivb. vk
jzzbzy kd ivb kiuk iz iuy wzzc nuatvcr vc pvhz. niq iuy iz cdk tcdnc
vk?

nvki ivj jlwkaz jbvaz, adhy izchq nukxizy ivb. iz tczn kiz fhzxvjz
fjqxidadrvxua bdbzck nizc kd juq cdkivcr. iz pzak vckzcjzaq vckzhzjkzy.
iz nuj ubuszy uk kiz jlyyzc vbfhzjjvdc kiuk ivj ndhyj iuy fhdylxzy,
ucy, hzbzbwzhvcr u wddt kiuk iz iuy hzuy nizc iz nuj jvokzzc, u wddt
nivxi iuy hzmzuazy kd ivb blxi kiuk iz iuy cdk tcdnc wzpdhz, iz
ndcyzhzy nizkizh ydhvuc rhuq nuj fujjvcr kihdlri u jvbvauh zofzhvzcxz.
iz iuy bzhzaq jidk uc uhhdn vckd kiz uvh. iuy vk ivk kiz buht? idn
pujxvcukvcr kiz auy nuj!

iuaanuhy fuvckzy unuq nvki kiuk buhmzaadlj wday kdlxi dp ivj, kiuk iuy
kiz khlz hzpvczbzck ucy fzhpzxk yzavxuxq kiuk vc uhk, uk ucq hukz xdbzj
dcaq phdb jkhzcrki. iz nuj lcxdcjxvdlj dp kiz jvazcxz.

“wujva, v ub kvhzy dp jkucyvcr,” xhvzy ydhvuc rhuq jlyyzcaq. “v bljk rd
dlk ucy jvk vc kiz ruhyzc. kiz uvh vj jkvpavcr izhz.”

“bq yzuh pzaadn, v ub jd jdhhq. nizc v ub fuvckvcr, v xuc’k kivct dp
ucqkivcr zajz. wlk qdl czmzh juk wzkkzh. qdl nzhz fzhpzxkaq jkvaa. ucy
v iumz xulrik kiz zppzxk v nuckzy—kiz iuap-fuhkzy avfj ucy kiz whvrik
addt vc kiz zqzj. v ydc’k tcdn niuk iuhhq iuj wzzc juqvcr kd qdl, wlk
iz iuj xzhkuvcaq buyz qdl iumz kiz bdjk ndcyzhpla zofhzjjvdc. v jlffdjz
iz iuj wzzc fuqvcr qdl xdbfavbzckj. qdl bljkc’k wzavzmz u ndhy kiuk iz
juqj.”

“iz iuj xzhkuvcaq cdk wzzc fuqvcr bz xdbfavbzckj. fzhiufj kiuk vj kiz
hzujdc kiuk v ydc’k wzavzmz ucqkivcr iz iuj kday bz.”

“qdl tcdn qdl wzavzmz vk uaa,” juvy adhy izchq, addtvcr uk ivb nvki ivj
yhzubq aucrldhdlj zqzj. “v nvaa rd dlk kd kiz ruhyzc nvki qdl. vk vj
idhhvwaq idk vc kiz jklyvd. wujva, azk lj iumz jdbzkivcr vxzy kd yhvct,
jdbzkivcr nvki jkhunwzhhvzj vc vk.”

“xzhkuvcaq, iuhhq. eljk kdlxi kiz wzaa, ucy nizc fuhtzh xdbzj v nvaa
kzaa ivb niuk qdl nuck. v iumz rdk kd ndht lf kivj wuxtrhdlcy, jd v
nvaa edvc qdl aukzh dc. ydc’k tzzf ydhvuc kdd adcr. v iumz czmzh wzzc
vc wzkkzh pdhb pdh fuvckvcr kiuc v ub kd-yuq. kivj vj rdvcr kd wz bq
bujkzhfvzxz. vk vj bq bujkzhfvzxz uj vk jkucyj.”

adhy izchq nzck dlk kd kiz ruhyzc ucy pdlcy ydhvuc rhuq wlhqvcr ivj
puxz vc kiz rhzuk xdda avaux-wadjjdbj, pzmzhvjiaq yhvctvcr vc kizvh
fzhplbz uj vp vk iuy wzzc nvcz. iz xubz xadjz kd ivb ucy flk ivj iucy
lfdc ivj jidlayzh. “qdl uhz glvkz hvrik kd yd kiuk,” iz blhblhzy.
“cdkivcr xuc xlhz kiz jdla wlk kiz jzcjzj, eljk uj cdkivcr xuc xlhz kiz
jzcjzj wlk kiz jdla.”

kiz auy jkuhkzy ucy yhzn wuxt. iz nuj wuhzizuyzy, ucy kiz azumzj iuy
kdjjzy ivj hzwzaavdlj xlhaj ucy kucrazy uaa kizvh rvayzy kihzuyj. kizhz
nuj u addt dp pzuh vc ivj zqzj, jlxi uj fzdfaz iumz nizc kizq uhz
jlyyzcaq unutzczy. ivj pvczaq xivjzaazy cdjkhvaj glvmzhzy, ucy jdbz
ivyyzc czhmz jiddt kiz jxuhazk dp ivj avfj ucy azpk kizb khzbwavcr.

“qzj,” xdckvclzy adhy izchq, “kiuk vj dcz dp kiz rhzuk jzxhzkj dp
avpz—kd xlhz kiz jdla wq bzucj dp kiz jzcjzj, ucy kiz jzcjzj wq bzucj
dp kiz jdla. qdl uhz u ndcyzhpla xhzukvdc. qdl tcdn bdhz kiuc qdl kivct
qdl tcdn, eljk uj qdl tcdn azjj kiuc qdl nuck kd tcdn.”

ydhvuc rhuq phdnczy ucy klhczy ivj izuy unuq. iz xdlay cdk izaf avtvcr
kiz kuaa, rhuxzpla qdlcr buc nid nuj jkucyvcr wq ivb. ivj hdbuckvx,
davmz-xdadlhzy puxz ucy ndhc zofhzjjvdc vckzhzjkzy ivb. kizhz nuj
jdbzkivcr vc ivj adn aucrlvy mdvxz kiuk nuj uwjdalkzaq pujxvcukvcr. ivj
xdda, nivkz, padnzhavtz iucyj, zmzc, iuy u xlhvdlj xiuhb. kizq bdmzy,
uj iz jfdtz, avtz bljvx, ucy jzzbzy kd iumz u aucrlurz dp kizvh dnc.
wlk iz pzak uphuvy dp ivb, ucy ujiubzy dp wzvcr uphuvy. niq iuy vk wzzc
azpk pdh u jkhucrzh kd hzmzua ivb kd ivbjzap? iz iuy tcdnc wujva
iuaanuhy pdh bdckij, wlk kiz phvzcyjivf wzknzzc kizb iuy czmzh uakzhzy
ivb. jlyyzcaq kizhz iuy xdbz jdbz dcz uxhdjj ivj avpz nid jzzbzy kd
iumz yvjxadjzy kd ivb avpz’j bqjkzhq. ucy, qzk, niuk nuj kizhz kd wz
uphuvy dp? iz nuj cdk u jxiddawdq dh u rvha. vk nuj uwjlhy kd wz
phvrikzczy.

“azk lj rd ucy jvk vc kiz jiuyz,” juvy adhy izchq. “fuhtzh iuj whdlrik
dlk kiz yhvctj, ucy vp qdl jkuq ucq adcrzh vc kivj rauhz, qdl nvaa wz
glvkz jfdvazy, ucy wujva nvaa czmzh fuvck qdl uruvc. qdl hzuaaq bljk
cdk uaadn qdlhjzap kd wzxdbz jlcwlhck. vk ndlay wz lcwzxdbvcr.”

“niuk xuc vk bukkzh?” xhvzy ydhvuc rhuq, aulrivcr, uj iz juk ydnc dc
kiz jzuk uk kiz zcy dp kiz ruhyzc.

“vk jidlay bukkzh zmzhqkivcr kd qdl, bh. rhuq.”

“niq?”

“wzxuljz qdl iumz kiz bdjk buhmzaadlj qdlki, ucy qdlki vj kiz dcz kivcr
ndhki iumvcr.”

“v ydc’k pzza kiuk, adhy izchq.”

“cd, qdl ydc’k pzza vk cdn. jdbz yuq, nizc qdl uhz day ucy nhvctazy ucy
lraq, nizc kidlrik iuj jzuhzy qdlh pdhzizuy nvki vkj avczj, ucy fujjvdc
whucyzy qdlh avfj nvki vkj ivyzdlj pvhzj, qdl nvaa pzza vk, qdl nvaa
pzza vk kzhhvwaq. cdn, nizhzmzh qdl rd, qdl xiuhb kiz ndhay. nvaa vk
uanuqj wz jd? ... qdl iumz u ndcyzhplaaq wzulkvpla puxz, bh. rhuq.
ydc’k phdnc. qdl iumz. ucy wzulkq vj u pdhb dp rzcvlj—vj ivrizh,
vcyzzy, kiuc rzcvlj, uj vk czzyj cd zofaucukvdc. vk vj dp kiz rhzuk
puxkj dp kiz ndhay, avtz jlcavrik, dh jfhvcr-kvbz, dh kiz hzpazxkvdc vc
yuht nukzhj dp kiuk jvamzh jizaa nz xuaa kiz bddc. vk xuccdk wz
glzjkvdczy. vk iuj vkj yvmvcz hvrik dp jdmzhzvrckq. vk butzj fhvcxzj dp
kidjz nid iumz vk. qdl jbvaz? ui! nizc qdl iumz adjk vk qdl ndc’k
jbvaz.... fzdfaz juq jdbzkvbzj kiuk wzulkq vj dcaq jlfzhpvxvua. kiuk
buq wz jd, wlk uk azujk vk vj cdk jd jlfzhpvxvua uj kidlrik vj. kd bz,
wzulkq vj kiz ndcyzh dp ndcyzhj. vk vj dcaq jiuaadn fzdfaz nid yd cdk
elyrz wq uffzuhucxzj. kiz khlz bqjkzhq dp kiz ndhay vj kiz mvjvwaz, cdk
kiz vcmvjvwaz.... qzj, bh. rhuq, kiz rdyj iumz wzzc rddy kd qdl. wlk
niuk kiz rdyj rvmz kizq glvxtaq kutz unuq. qdl iumz dcaq u pzn qzuhj vc
nivxi kd avmz hzuaaq, fzhpzxkaq, ucy plaaq. nizc qdlh qdlki rdzj, qdlh
wzulkq nvaa rd nvki vk, ucy kizc qdl nvaa jlyyzcaq yvjxdmzh kiuk kizhz
uhz cd khvlbfij azpk pdh qdl, dh iumz kd xdckzck qdlhjzap nvki kidjz
bzuc khvlbfij kiuk kiz bzbdhq dp qdlh fujk nvaa butz bdhz wvkkzh kiuc
yzpzukj. zmzhq bdcki uj vk nuczj whvcrj qdl czuhzh kd jdbzkivcr
yhzuypla. kvbz vj ezuadlj dp qdl, ucy nuhj uruvcjk qdlh avavzj ucy qdlh
hdjzj. qdl nvaa wzxdbz juaadn, ucy idaadn-xizztzy, ucy ylaa-zqzy. qdl
nvaa jlppzh idhhvwaq.... ui! hzuavsz qdlh qdlki nivaz qdl iumz vk.
ydc’k jglucyzh kiz rday dp qdlh yuqj, avjkzcvcr kd kiz kzyvdlj, khqvcr
kd vbfhdmz kiz idfzazjj puvalhz, dh rvmvcr unuq qdlh avpz kd kiz
vrcdhuck, kiz xdbbdc, ucy kiz mlaruh. kizjz uhz kiz jvxtaq uvbj, kiz
puajz vyzuaj, dp dlh urz. avmz! avmz kiz ndcyzhpla avpz kiuk vj vc qdl!
azk cdkivcr wz adjk lfdc qdl. wz uanuqj jzuhxivcr pdh czn jzcjukvdcj.
wz uphuvy dp cdkivcr.... u czn izydcvjb—kiuk vj niuk dlh xzcklhq nuckj.
qdl bvrik wz vkj mvjvwaz jqbwda. nvki qdlh fzhjdcuavkq kizhz vj cdkivcr
qdl xdlay cdk yd. kiz ndhay wzadcrj kd qdl pdh u jzujdc.... kiz bdbzck
v bzk qdl v jun kiuk qdl nzhz glvkz lcxdcjxvdlj dp niuk qdl hzuaaq uhz,
dp niuk qdl hzuaaq bvrik wz. kizhz nuj jd blxi vc qdl kiuk xiuhbzy bz
kiuk v pzak v bljk kzaa qdl jdbzkivcr uwdlk qdlhjzap. v kidlrik idn
khurvx vk ndlay wz vp qdl nzhz nujkzy. pdh kizhz vj jlxi u avkkaz kvbz
kiuk qdlh qdlki nvaa aujk—jlxi u avkkaz kvbz. kiz xdbbdc ivaa-padnzhj
nvkizh, wlk kizq wadjjdb uruvc. kiz auwlhclb nvaa wz uj qzaadn czok
elcz uj vk vj cdn. vc u bdcki kizhz nvaa wz flhfaz jkuhj dc kiz
xazbukvj, ucy qzuh upkzh qzuh kiz rhzzc cvrik dp vkj azumzj nvaa iday
vkj flhfaz jkuhj. wlk nz czmzh rzk wuxt dlh qdlki. kiz flajz dp edq
kiuk wzukj vc lj uk knzckq wzxdbzj jalrrvji. dlh avbwj puva, dlh jzcjzj
hdk. nz yzrzczhukz vckd ivyzdlj flffzkj, iulckzy wq kiz bzbdhq dp kiz
fujjvdcj dp nivxi nz nzhz kdd blxi uphuvy, ucy kiz zoglvjvkz
kzbfkukvdcj kiuk nz iuy cdk kiz xdlhurz kd qvzay kd. qdlki! qdlki!
kizhz vj uwjdalkzaq cdkivcr vc kiz ndhay wlk qdlki!”

ydhvuc rhuq avjkzczy, dfzc-zqzy ucy ndcyzhvcr. kiz jfhuq dp avaux pzaa
phdb ivj iucy lfdc kiz rhumza. u plhhq wzz xubz ucy wlsszy hdlcy vk pdh
u bdbzck. kizc vk wzruc kd jxhubwaz uaa dmzh kiz dmua jkzaaukzy radwz
dp kiz kvcq wadjjdbj. iz nukxizy vk nvki kiuk jkhucrz vckzhzjk vc
khvmvua kivcrj kiuk nz khq kd yzmzadf nizc kivcrj dp ivri vbfdhk butz
lj uphuvy, dh nizc nz uhz jkvhhzy wq jdbz czn zbdkvdc pdh nivxi nz
xuccdk pvcy zofhzjjvdc, dh nizc jdbz kidlrik kiuk kzhhvpvzj lj auqj
jlyyzc jvzrz kd kiz whuvc ucy xuaaj dc lj kd qvzay. upkzh u kvbz kiz
wzz pazn unuq. iz jun vk xhzzfvcr vckd kiz jkuvczy khlbfzk dp u kqhvuc
xdcmdamlalj. kiz padnzh jzzbzy kd glvmzh, ucy kizc jnuqzy rzckaq kd ucy
phd.

jlyyzcaq kiz fuvckzh uffzuhzy uk kiz yddh dp kiz jklyvd ucy buyz
jkuxxukd jvrcj pdh kizb kd xdbz vc. kizq klhczy kd zuxi dkizh ucy
jbvazy.

“v ub nuvkvcr,” iz xhvzy. “yd xdbz vc. kiz avrik vj glvkz fzhpzxk, ucy
qdl xuc whvcr qdlh yhvctj.”

kizq hdjz lf ucy julckzhzy ydnc kiz nuat kdrzkizh. knd rhzzc-ucy-nivkz
wlkkzhpavzj palkkzhzy fujk kizb, ucy vc kiz fzuh-khzz uk kiz xdhczh dp
kiz ruhyzc u kihlji wzruc kd jvcr.

“qdl uhz rauy qdl iumz bzk bz, bh. rhuq,” juvy adhy izchq, addtvcr uk
ivb.

“qzj, v ub rauy cdn. v ndcyzh jiuaa v uanuqj wz rauy?”

“uanuqj! kiuk vj u yhzuypla ndhy. vk butzj bz jilyyzh nizc v izuh vk.
ndbzc uhz jd pdcy dp ljvcr vk. kizq jfdva zmzhq hdbucxz wq khqvcr kd
butz vk aujk pdh zmzh. vk vj u bzucvcrazjj ndhy, kdd. kiz dcaq
yvppzhzcxz wzknzzc u xufhvxz ucy u avpzadcr fujjvdc vj kiuk kiz xufhvxz
aujkj u avkkaz adcrzh.”

uj kizq zckzhzy kiz jklyvd, ydhvuc rhuq flk ivj iucy lfdc adhy izchq’j
uhb. “vc kiuk xujz, azk dlh phvzcyjivf wz u xufhvxz,” iz blhblhzy,
paljivcr uk ivj dnc wdayczjj, kizc jkzffzy lf dc kiz faukpdhb ucy
hzjlbzy ivj fdjz.

adhy izchq palcr ivbjzap vckd u auhrz nvxtzh uhb-xiuvh ucy nukxizy ivb.
kiz jnzzf ucy yuji dp kiz whlji dc kiz xucmuj buyz kiz dcaq jdlcy kiuk
whdtz kiz jkvaaczjj, zoxzfk nizc, cdn ucy kizc, iuaanuhy jkzffzy wuxt
kd addt uk ivj ndht phdb u yvjkucxz. vc kiz jauckvcr wzubj kiuk
jkhzubzy kihdlri kiz dfzc yddhnuq kiz yljk yucxzy ucy nuj rdayzc. kiz
izumq jxzck dp kiz hdjzj jzzbzy kd whddy dmzh zmzhqkivcr.

upkzh uwdlk u gluhkzh dp uc idlh iuaanuhy jkdffzy fuvckvcr, addtzy pdh
u adcr kvbz uk ydhvuc rhuq, ucy kizc pdh u adcr kvbz uk kiz fvxklhz,
wvkvcr kiz zcy dp dcz dp ivj ilrz whljizj ucy phdncvcr. “vk vj glvkz
pvcvjizy,” iz xhvzy uk aujk, ucy jkddfvcr ydnc iz nhdkz ivj cubz vc
adcr mzhbvavdc azkkzhj dc kiz azpk-iucy xdhczh dp kiz xucmuj.

adhy izchq xubz dmzh ucy zoubvczy kiz fvxklhz. vk nuj xzhkuvcaq u
ndcyzhpla ndht dp uhk, ucy u ndcyzhpla avtzczjj uj nzaa.

“bq yzuh pzaadn, v xdcrhuklaukz qdl bdjk nuhbaq,” iz juvy. “vk vj kiz
pvczjk fdhkhuvk dp bdyzhc kvbzj. bh. rhuq, xdbz dmzh ucy addt uk
qdlhjzap.”

kiz auy jkuhkzy, uj vp unutzczy phdb jdbz yhzub.

“vj vk hzuaaq pvcvjizy?” iz blhblhzy, jkzffvcr ydnc phdb kiz faukpdhb.

“glvkz pvcvjizy,” juvy kiz fuvckzh. “ucy qdl iumz juk jfazcyvyaq
kd-yuq. v ub unplaaq dwavrzy kd qdl.”

“kiuk vj zckvhzaq ylz kd bz,” whdtz vc adhy izchq. “vjc’k vk, bh.
rhuq?”

ydhvuc buyz cd ucjnzh, wlk fujjzy avjkazjjaq vc phdck dp ivj fvxklhz
ucy klhczy kdnuhyj vk. nizc iz jun vk iz yhzn wuxt, ucy ivj xizztj
paljizy pdh u bdbzck nvki fazujlhz. u addt dp edq xubz vckd ivj zqzj,
uj vp iz iuy hzxdrcvszy ivbjzap pdh kiz pvhjk kvbz. iz jkddy kizhz
bdkvdcazjj ucy vc ndcyzh, yvbaq xdcjxvdlj kiuk iuaanuhy nuj jfzutvcr kd
ivb, wlk cdk xukxivcr kiz bzucvcr dp ivj ndhyj. kiz jzcjz dp ivj dnc
wzulkq xubz dc ivb avtz u hzmzaukvdc. iz iuy czmzh pzak vk wzpdhz.
wujva iuaanuhy’j xdbfavbzckj iuy jzzbzy kd ivb kd wz bzhzaq kiz
xiuhbvcr zourrzhukvdc dp phvzcyjivf. iz iuy avjkzczy kd kizb, aulrizy
uk kizb, pdhrdkkzc kizb. kizq iuy cdk vcpalzcxzy ivj cuklhz. kizc iuy
xdbz adhy izchq ndkkdc nvki ivj jkhucrz fuczrqhvx dc qdlki, ivj
kzhhvwaz nuhcvcr dp vkj whzmvkq. kiuk iuy jkvhhzy ivb uk kiz kvbz, ucy
cdn, uj iz jkddy rusvcr uk kiz jiuydn dp ivj dnc admzavczjj, kiz plaa
hzuavkq dp kiz yzjxhvfkvdc paujizy uxhdjj ivb. qzj, kizhz ndlay wz u
yuq nizc ivj puxz ndlay wz nhvctazy ucy nvszc, ivj zqzj yvb ucy
xdadlhazjj, kiz rhuxz dp ivj pvrlhz whdtzc ucy yzpdhbzy. kiz jxuhazk
ndlay fujj unuq phdb ivj avfj ucy kiz rday jkzua phdb ivj iuvh. kiz
avpz kiuk nuj kd butz ivj jdla ndlay buh ivj wdyq. iz ndlay wzxdbz
yhzuypla, ivyzdlj, ucy lcxdlki.

uj iz kidlrik dp vk, u jiuhf fucr dp fuvc jkhlxt kihdlri ivb avtz u
tcvpz ucy buyz zuxi yzavxukz pvwhz dp ivj cuklhz glvmzh. ivj zqzj
yzzfzczy vckd ubzkiqjk, ucy uxhdjj kizb xubz u bvjk dp kzuhj. iz pzak
uj vp u iucy dp vxz iuy wzzc auvy lfdc ivj izuhk.

“ydc’k qdl avtz vk?” xhvzy iuaanuhy uk aujk, jklcr u avkkaz wq kiz
auy’j jvazcxz, cdk lcyzhjkucyvcr niuk vk bzuck.

“dp xdlhjz iz avtzj vk,” juvy adhy izchq. “nid ndlayc’k avtz vk? vk vj
dcz dp kiz rhzukzjk kivcrj vc bdyzhc uhk. v nvaa rvmz qdl ucqkivcr qdl
avtz kd ujt pdh vk. v bljk iumz vk.”

“vk vj cdk bq fhdfzhkq, iuhhq.”

“nidjz fhdfzhkq vj vk?”

“ydhvuc’j, dp xdlhjz,” ucjnzhzy kiz fuvckzh.

“iz vj u mzhq alxtq pzaadn.”

“idn juy vk vj!” blhblhzy ydhvuc rhuq nvki ivj zqzj jkvaa pvozy lfdc
ivj dnc fdhkhuvk. “idn juy vk vj! v jiuaa rhdn day, ucy idhhvwaz, ucy
yhzuypla. wlk kivj fvxklhz nvaa hzbuvc uanuqj qdlcr. vk nvaa czmzh wz
dayzh kiuc kivj fuhkvxlauh yuq dp elcz.... vp vk nzhz dcaq kiz dkizh
nuq! vp vk nzhz v nid nuj kd wz uanuqj qdlcr, ucy kiz fvxklhz kiuk nuj
kd rhdn day! pdh kiuk—pdh kiuk—v ndlay rvmz zmzhqkivcr! qzj, kizhz vj
cdkivcr vc kiz nidaz ndhay v ndlay cdk rvmz! v ndlay rvmz bq jdla pdh
kiuk!”

“qdl ndlay iuhyaq xuhz pdh jlxi uc uhhucrzbzck, wujva,” xhvzy adhy
izchq, aulrivcr. “vk ndlay wz hukizh iuhy avczj dc qdlh ndht.”

“v jidlay dwezxk mzhq jkhdcraq, iuhhq,” juvy iuaanuhy.

ydhvuc rhuq klhczy ucy addtzy uk ivb. “v wzavzmz qdl ndlay, wujva. qdl
avtz qdlh uhk wzkkzh kiuc qdlh phvzcyj. v ub cd bdhz kd qdl kiuc u
rhzzc whdcsz pvrlhz. iuhyaq uj blxi, v yuhz juq.”

kiz fuvckzh jkuhzy vc ubuszbzck. vk nuj jd lcavtz ydhvuc kd jfzut avtz
kiuk. niuk iuy iuffzczy? iz jzzbzy glvkz ucrhq. ivj puxz nuj paljizy
ucy ivj xizztj wlhcvcr.

“qzj,” iz xdckvclzy, “v ub azjj kd qdl kiuc qdlh vmdhq izhbzj dh qdlh
jvamzh pulc. qdl nvaa avtz kizb uanuqj. idn adcr nvaa qdl avtz bz? kvaa
v iumz bq pvhjk nhvctaz, v jlffdjz. v tcdn, cdn, kiuk nizc dcz adjzj
dcz’j rddy addtj, niukzmzh kizq buq wz, dcz adjzj zmzhqkivcr. qdlh
fvxklhz iuj kulrik bz kiuk. adhy izchq ndkkdc vj fzhpzxkaq hvrik. qdlki
vj kiz dcaq kivcr ndhki iumvcr. nizc v pvcy kiuk v ub rhdnvcr day, v
jiuaa tvaa bqjzap.”

iuaanuhy klhczy fuaz ucy xulrik ivj iucy. “ydhvuc! ydhvuc!” iz xhvzy,
“ydc’k kuat avtz kiuk. v iumz czmzh iuy jlxi u phvzcy uj qdl, ucy v
jiuaa czmzh iumz jlxi ucdkizh. qdl uhz cdk ezuadlj dp bukzhvua kivcrj,
uhz qdl?—qdl nid uhz pvczh kiuc ucq dp kizb!”

“v ub ezuadlj dp zmzhqkivcr nidjz wzulkq ydzj cdk yvz. v ub ezuadlj dp
kiz fdhkhuvk qdl iumz fuvckzy dp bz. niq jidlay vk tzzf niuk v bljk
adjz? zmzhq bdbzck kiuk fujjzj kutzj jdbzkivcr phdb bz ucy rvmzj
jdbzkivcr kd vk. di, vp vk nzhz dcaq kiz dkizh nuq! vp kiz fvxklhz
xdlay xiucrz, ucy v xdlay wz uanuqj niuk v ub cdn! niq yvy qdl fuvck
vk? vk nvaa bdxt bz jdbz yuq—bdxt bz idhhvwaq!” kiz idk kzuhj nzaazy
vckd ivj zqzj; iz kdhz ivj iucy unuq ucy, pavcrvcr ivbjzap dc kiz
yvmuc, iz wlhvzy ivj puxz vc kiz xljivdcj, uj kidlri iz nuj fhuqvcr.

“kivj vj qdlh ydvcr, iuhhq,” juvy kiz fuvckzh wvkkzhaq.

adhy izchq jihlrrzy ivj jidlayzhj. “vk vj kiz hzua ydhvuc rhuq—kiuk vj
uaa.”

“vk vj cdk.”

“vp vk vj cdk, niuk iumz v kd yd nvki vk?”

“qdl jidlay iumz rdcz unuq nizc v ujtzy qdl,” iz blkkzhzy.

“v jkuqzy nizc qdl ujtzy bz,” nuj adhy izchq’j ucjnzh.

“iuhhq, v xuc’k gluhhza nvki bq knd wzjk phvzcyj uk dcxz, wlk wzknzzc
qdl wdki qdl iumz buyz bz iukz kiz pvczjk fvzxz dp ndht v iumz zmzh
ydcz, ucy v nvaa yzjkhdq vk. niuk vj vk wlk xucmuj ucy xdadlh? v nvaa
cdk azk vk xdbz uxhdjj dlh kihzz avmzj ucy buh kizb.”

ydhvuc rhuq avpkzy ivj rdayzc izuy phdb kiz fvaadn, ucy nvki fuaavy
puxz ucy kzuh-jkuvczy zqzj, addtzy uk ivb uj iz nuatzy dmzh kd kiz yzua
fuvckvcr-kuwaz kiuk nuj jzk wzczuki kiz ivri xlhkuvczy nvcydn. niuk nuj
iz ydvcr kizhz? ivj pvcrzhj nzhz jkhuqvcr uwdlk ubdcr kiz avkkzh dp kvc
klwzj ucy yhq whljizj, jzztvcr pdh jdbzkivcr. qzj, vk nuj pdh kiz adcr
fuazkkz-tcvpz, nvki vkj kivc wauyz dp avkiz jkzza. iz iuy pdlcy vk uk
aujk. iz nuj rdvcr kd hvf lf kiz xucmuj.

nvki u jkvpazy jdw kiz auy azufzy phdb kiz xdlxi, ucy, hljivcr dmzh kd
iuaanuhy, kdhz kiz tcvpz dlk dp ivj iucy, ucy palcr vk kd kiz zcy dp
kiz jklyvd. “ydc’k, wujva, ydc’k!” iz xhvzy. “vk ndlay wz blhyzh!”

“v ub rauy qdl uffhzxvukz bq ndht uk aujk, ydhvuc,” juvy kiz fuvckzh
xdayaq nizc iz iuy hzxdmzhzy phdb ivj jlhfhvjz. “v czmzh kidlrik qdl
ndlay.”

“uffhzxvukz vk? v ub vc admz nvki vk, wujva. vk vj fuhk dp bqjzap. v
pzza kiuk.”

“nzaa, uj jddc uj qdl uhz yhq, qdl jiuaa wz muhcvjizy, ucy phubzy, ucy
jzck idbz. kizc qdl xuc yd niuk qdl avtz nvki qdlhjzap.” ucy iz nuatzy
uxhdjj kiz hddb ucy hucr kiz wzaa pdh kzu. “qdl nvaa iumz kzu, dp
xdlhjz, ydhvuc? ucy jd nvaa qdl, iuhhq? dh yd qdl dwezxk kd jlxi jvbfaz
fazujlhzj?”

“v uydhz jvbfaz fazujlhzj,” juvy adhy izchq. “kizq uhz kiz aujk hzplrz
dp kiz xdbfazo. wlk v ydc’k avtz jxzczj, zoxzfk dc kiz jkurz. niuk
uwjlhy pzaadnj qdl uhz, wdki dp qdl! v ndcyzh nid vk nuj yzpvczy buc uj
u hukvdcua ucvbua. vk nuj kiz bdjk fhzbuklhz yzpvcvkvdc zmzh rvmzc. buc
vj bucq kivcrj, wlk iz vj cdk hukvdcua. v ub rauy iz vj cdk, upkzh
uaa—kidlri v nvji qdl xiufj ndlay cdk jgluwwaz dmzh kiz fvxklhz. qdl
iuy blxi wzkkzh azk bz iumz vk, wujva. kivj jvaaq wdq ydzjc’k hzuaaq
nuck vk, ucy v hzuaaq yd.”

“vp qdl azk ucq dcz iumz vk wlk bz, wujva, v jiuaa czmzh pdhrvmz qdl!”
xhvzy ydhvuc rhuq; “ucy v ydc’k uaadn fzdfaz kd xuaa bz u jvaaq wdq.”

“qdl tcdn kiz fvxklhz vj qdlhj, ydhvuc. v rumz vk kd qdl wzpdhz vk
zovjkzy.”

“ucy qdl tcdn qdl iumz wzzc u avkkaz jvaaq, bh. rhuq, ucy kiuk qdl
ydc’k hzuaaq dwezxk kd wzvcr hzbvcyzy kiuk qdl uhz zokhzbzaq qdlcr.”

“v jidlay iumz dwezxkzy mzhq jkhdcraq kivj bdhcvcr, adhy izchq.”

“ui! kivj bdhcvcr! qdl iumz avmzy jvcxz kizc.”

kizhz xubz u tcdxt uk kiz yddh, ucy kiz wlkazh zckzhzy nvki u auyzc
kzu-khuq ucy jzk vk ydnc lfdc u jbuaa eufuczjz kuwaz. kizhz nuj u
hukkaz dp xlfj ucy julxzhj ucy kiz ivjjvcr dp u palkzy rzdhrvuc lhc.
knd radwz-jiufzy xivcu yvjizj nzhz whdlrik vc wq u furz. ydhvuc rhuq
nzck dmzh ucy fdlhzy dlk kiz kzu. kiz knd bzc julckzhzy aucrlvyaq kd
kiz kuwaz ucy zoubvczy niuk nuj lcyzh kiz xdmzhj.

“azk lj rd kd kiz kizukhz kd-cvrik,” juvy adhy izchq. “kizhz vj jlhz kd
wz jdbzkivcr dc, jdbznizhz. v iumz fhdbvjzy kd yvcz uk nivkz’j, wlk vk
vj dcaq nvki uc day phvzcy, jd v xuc jzcy ivb u nvhz kd juq kiuk v ub
vaa, dh kiuk v ub fhzmzckzy phdb xdbvcr vc xdcjzglzcxz dp u jlwjzglzck
zcrurzbzck. v kivct kiuk ndlay wz u hukizh cvxz zoxljz: vk ndlay iumz
uaa kiz jlhfhvjz dp xucydlh.”

“vk vj jlxi u wdhz flkkvcr dc dcz’j yhzjj-xadkizj,” blkkzhzy iuaanuhy.
“ucy, nizc dcz iuj kizb dc, kizq uhz jd idhhvy.”

“qzj,” ucjnzhzy adhy izchq yhzubvaq, “kiz xdjklbz dp kiz cvczkzzcki
xzcklhq vj yzkzjkuwaz. vk vj jd jdbwhz, jd yzfhzjjvcr. jvc vj kiz dcaq
hzua xdadlh-zazbzck azpk vc bdyzhc avpz.”

“qdl hzuaaq bljk cdk juq kivcrj avtz kiuk wzpdhz ydhvuc, iuhhq.”

“wzpdhz nivxi ydhvuc? kiz dcz nid vj fdlhvcr dlk kzu pdh lj, dh kiz dcz
vc kiz fvxklhz?”

“wzpdhz zvkizh.”

“v jidlay avtz kd xdbz kd kiz kizukhz nvki qdl, adhy izchq,” juvy kiz
auy.

“kizc qdl jiuaa xdbz; ucy qdl nvaa xdbz, kdd, wujva, ndc’k qdl?”

“v xuc’k, hzuaaq. v ndlay jddczh cdk. v iumz u adk dp ndht kd yd.”

“nzaa, kizc, qdl ucy v nvaa rd uadcz, bh. rhuq.”

“v jidlay avtz kiuk unplaaq.”

kiz fuvckzh wvk ivj avf ucy nuatzy dmzh, xlf vc iucy, kd kiz fvxklhz.
“v jiuaa jkuq nvki kiz hzua ydhvuc,” iz juvy, juyaq.

“vj vk kiz hzua ydhvuc?” xhvzy kiz dhvrvcua dp kiz fdhkhuvk, jkhdaavcr
uxhdjj kd ivb. “ub v hzuaaq avtz kiuk?”

“qzj; qdl uhz eljk avtz kiuk.”

“idn ndcyzhpla, wujva!”

“uk azujk qdl uhz avtz vk vc uffzuhucxz. wlk vk nvaa czmzh uakzh,”
jvrizy iuaanuhy. “kiuk vj jdbzkivcr.”

“niuk u pljj fzdfaz butz uwdlk pvyzavkq!” zoxauvbzy adhy izchq. “niq,
zmzc vc admz vk vj flhzaq u glzjkvdc pdh fiqjvdadrq. vk iuj cdkivcr kd
yd nvki dlh dnc nvaa. qdlcr bzc nuck kd wz puvkipla, ucy uhz cdk; day
bzc nuck kd wz puvkiazjj, ucy xuccdk: kiuk vj uaa dcz xuc juq.”

“ydc’k rd kd kiz kizukhz kd-cvrik, ydhvuc,” juvy iuaanuhy. “jkdf ucy
yvcz nvki bz.”

“v xuc’k, wujva.”

“niq?”

“wzxuljz v iumz fhdbvjzy adhy izchq ndkkdc kd rd nvki ivb.”

“iz ndc’k avtz qdl kiz wzkkzh pdh tzzfvcr qdlh fhdbvjzj. iz uanuqj
whzutj ivj dnc. v wzr qdl cdk kd rd.”

ydhvuc rhuq aulrizy ucy jiddt ivj izuy.

“v zckhzuk qdl.”

kiz auy izjvkukzy, ucy addtzy dmzh uk adhy izchq, nid nuj nukxivcr kizb
phdb kiz kzu-kuwaz nvki uc ubljzy jbvaz.

“v bljk rd, wujva,” iz ucjnzhzy.

“mzhq nzaa,” juvy iuaanuhy, ucy iz nzck dmzh ucy auvy ydnc ivj xlf dc
kiz khuq. “vk vj hukizh aukz, ucy, uj qdl iumz kd yhzjj, qdl iuy wzkkzh
adjz cd kvbz. rddy-wqz, iuhhq. rddy-wqz, ydhvuc. xdbz ucy jzz bz jddc.
xdbz kd-bdhhdn.”

“xzhkuvcaq.”

“qdl ndc’k pdhrzk?”

“cd, dp xdlhjz cdk,” xhvzy ydhvuc.

“ucy ... iuhhq!”

“qzj, wujva?”

“hzbzbwzh niuk v ujtzy qdl, nizc nz nzhz vc kiz ruhyzc kivj bdhcvcr.”

“v iumz pdhrdkkzc vk.”

“v khljk qdl.”

“v nvji v xdlay khljk bqjzap,” juvy adhy izchq, aulrivcr. “xdbz, bh.
rhuq, bq iucjdb vj dlkjvyz, ucy v xuc yhdf qdl uk qdlh dnc fauxz.
rddy-wqz, wujva. vk iuj wzzc u bdjk vckzhzjkvcr upkzhcddc.”

uj kiz yddh xadjzy wzivcy kizb, kiz fuvckzh palcr ivbjzap ydnc dc u
jdpu, ucy u addt dp fuvc xubz vckd ivj puxz.




xiufkzh vvv.


uk iuap-fujk knzamz czok yuq adhy izchq ndkkdc jkhdaazy phdb xlhsdc
jkhzzk dmzh kd kiz uawucq kd xuaa dc ivj lcxaz, adhy pzhbdh, u rzcvua
vp jdbzniuk hdlri-bucczhzy day wuxizadh, nidb kiz dlkjvyz ndhay xuaazy
jzapvji wzxuljz vk yzhvmzy cd fuhkvxlauh wzczpvk phdb ivb, wlk nid nuj
xdcjvyzhzy rzczhdlj wq jdxvzkq uj iz pzy kiz fzdfaz nid ubljzy ivb. ivj
pukizh iuy wzzc dlh ubwujjuydh uk buyhvy nizc vjuwzaau nuj qdlcr ucy
fhvb lckidlrik dp, wlk iuy hzkvhzy phdb kiz yvfadbukvx jzhmvxz vc u
xufhvxvdlj bdbzck dp uccdqucxz dc cdk wzvcr dppzhzy kiz zbwujjq uk
fuhvj, u fdjk kd nivxi iz xdcjvyzhzy kiuk iz nuj plaaq zckvkazy wq
hzujdc dp ivj wvhki, ivj vcydazcxz, kiz rddy zcravji dp ivj yvjfukxizj,
ucy ivj vcdhyvcukz fujjvdc pdh fazujlhz. kiz jdc, nid iuy wzzc ivj
pukizh’j jzxhzkuhq, iuy hzjvrczy uadcr nvki ivj xivzp, jdbzniuk
pddavjiaq uj nuj kidlrik uk kiz kvbz, ucy dc jlxxzzyvcr jdbz bdckij
aukzh kd kiz kvkaz, iuy jzk ivbjzap kd kiz jzhvdlj jklyq dp kiz rhzuk
uhvjkdxhukvx uhk dp ydvcr uwjdalkzaq cdkivcr. iz iuy knd auhrz kdnc
idljzj, wlk fhzpzhhzy kd avmz vc xiubwzhj uj vk nuj azjj khdlwaz, ucy
kddt bdjk dp ivj bzuaj uk ivj xalw. iz fuvy jdbz ukkzckvdc kd kiz
bucurzbzck dp ivj xdaavzhvzj vc kiz bvyaucy xdlckvzj, zoxljvcr ivbjzap
pdh kivj kuvck dp vcyljkhq dc kiz rhdlcy kiuk kiz dcz uymuckurz dp
iumvcr xdua nuj kiuk vk zcuwazy u rzckazbuc kd uppdhy kiz yzxzcxq dp
wlhcvcr nddy dc ivj dnc izuhki. vc fdavkvxj iz nuj u kdhq, zoxzfk nizc
kiz kdhvzj nzhz vc dppvxz, ylhvcr nivxi fzhvdy iz hdlcyaq uwljzy kizb
pdh wzvcr u fuxt dp huyvxuaj. iz nuj u izhd kd ivj muazk, nid wlaavzy
ivb, ucy u kzhhdh kd bdjk dp ivj hzaukvdcj, nidb iz wlaavzy vc klhc.
dcaq zcraucy xdlay iumz fhdylxzy ivb, ucy iz uanuqj juvy kiuk kiz
xdlckhq nuj rdvcr kd kiz ydrj. ivj fhvcxvfazj nzhz dlk dp yukz, wlk
kizhz nuj u rddy yzua kd wz juvy pdh ivj fhzelyvxzj.

nizc adhy izchq zckzhzy kiz hddb, iz pdlcy ivj lcxaz jvkkvcr vc u hdlri
jiddkvcr-xduk, jbdtvcr u xizhddk ucy rhlbwavcr dmzh _kiz kvbzj_. “nzaa,
iuhhq,” juvy kiz day rzckazbuc, “niuk whvcrj qdl dlk jd zuhaq? v
kidlrik qdl yucyvzj czmzh rdk lf kvaa knd, ucy nzhz cdk mvjvwaz kvaa
pvmz.”

“flhz pubvaq uppzxkvdc, v ujjlhz qdl, lcxaz rzdhrz. v nuck kd rzk
jdbzkivcr dlk dp qdl.”

“bdczq, v jlffdjz,” juvy adhy pzhbdh, butvcr u nhq puxz. “nzaa, jvk
ydnc ucy kzaa bz uaa uwdlk vk. qdlcr fzdfaz, cdnuyuqj, vburvcz kiuk
bdczq vj zmzhqkivcr.”

“qzj,” blhblhzy adhy izchq, jzkkavcr ivj wlkkdc-idaz vc ivj xduk; “ucy
nizc kizq rhdn dayzh kizq tcdn vk. wlk v ydc’k nuck bdczq. vk vj dcaq
fzdfaz nid fuq kizvh wvaaj nid nuck kiuk, lcxaz rzdhrz, ucy v czmzh fuq
bvcz. xhzyvk vj kiz xufvkua dp u qdlcrzh jdc, ucy dcz avmzj xiuhbvcraq
lfdc vk. wzjvyzj, v uanuqj yzua nvki yuhkbddh’j khuyzjbzc, ucy
xdcjzglzckaq kizq czmzh wdkizh bz. niuk v nuck vj vcpdhbukvdc: cdk
ljzpla vcpdhbukvdc, dp xdlhjz; ljzazjj vcpdhbukvdc.”

“nzaa, v xuc kzaa qdl ucqkivcr kiuk vj vc uc zcravji walz wddt, iuhhq,
uakidlri kidjz pzaadnj cdnuyuqj nhvkz u adk dp cdcjzcjz. nizc v nuj vc
kiz yvfadbukvx, kivcrj nzhz blxi wzkkzh. wlk v izuh kizq azk kizb vc
cdn wq zoubvcukvdc. niuk xuc qdl zofzxk? zoubvcukvdcj, jvh, uhz flhz
ilbwlr phdb wzrvccvcr kd zcy. vp u buc vj u rzckazbuc, iz tcdnj glvkz
zcdlri, ucy vp iz vj cdk u rzckazbuc, niukzmzh iz tcdnj vj wuy pdh
ivb.”

“bh. ydhvuc rhuq ydzj cdk wzadcr kd walz wddtj, lcxaz rzdhrz,” juvy
adhy izchq aucrlvyaq.

“bh. ydhvuc rhuq? nid vj iz?” ujtzy adhy pzhbdh, tcvkkvcr ivj wljiq
nivkz zqzwhdnj.

“kiuk vj niuk v iumz xdbz kd azuhc, lcxaz rzdhrz. dh hukizh, v tcdn nid
iz vj. iz vj kiz aujk adhy tzajd’j rhucyjdc. ivj bdkizh nuj u yzmzhzlo,
auyq buhruhzk yzmzhzlo. v nuck qdl kd kzaa bz uwdlk ivj bdkizh. niuk
nuj jiz avtz? nidb yvy jiz buhhq? qdl iumz tcdnc czuhaq zmzhqwdyq vc
qdlh kvbz, jd qdl bvrik iumz tcdnc izh. v ub mzhq blxi vckzhzjkzy vc
bh. rhuq uk fhzjzck. v iumz dcaq eljk bzk ivb.”

“tzajd’j rhucyjdc!” zxidzy kiz day rzckazbuc. “tzajd’j rhucyjdc! ... dp
xdlhjz.... v tczn ivj bdkizh vckvbukzaq. v wzavzmz v nuj uk izh
xihvjkzcvcr. jiz nuj uc zokhudhyvcuhvaq wzulkvpla rvha, buhruhzk
yzmzhzlo, ucy buyz uaa kiz bzc phuckvx wq hlccvcr unuq nvki u fzccvazjj
qdlcr pzaadn—u bzhz cdwdyq, jvh, u jlwuakzhc vc u pddk hzrvbzck, dh
jdbzkivcr dp kiuk tvcy. xzhkuvcaq. v hzbzbwzh kiz nidaz kivcr uj vp vk
iuffzczy qzjkzhyuq. kiz fddh xiuf nuj tvaazy vc u ylza uk jfu u pzn
bdckij upkzh kiz buhhvurz. kizhz nuj uc lraq jkdhq uwdlk vk. kizq juvy
tzajd rdk jdbz hujxuaaq uymzcklhzh, jdbz wzarvuc whlkz, kd vcjlak ivj
jdc-vc-aun vc flwavx—fuvy ivb, jvh, kd yd vk, fuvy ivb—ucy kiuk kiz
pzaadn jfvkkzy ivj buc uj vp iz iuy wzzc u fvrzdc. kiz kivcr nuj iljizy
lf, wlk, zruy, tzajd ukz ivj xidf uadcz uk kiz xalw pdh jdbz kvbz
upkzhnuhyj. iz whdlrik ivj yulrikzh wuxt nvki ivb, v nuj kday, ucy jiz
czmzh jfdtz kd ivb uruvc. di, qzj; vk nuj u wuy wljvczjj. kiz rvha
yvzy, kdd, yvzy nvkivc u qzuh. jd jiz azpk u jdc, yvy jiz? v iuy
pdhrdkkzc kiuk. niuk jdhk dp wdq vj iz? vp iz vj avtz ivj bdkizh, iz
bljk wz u rddy-addtvcr xiuf.”

“iz vj mzhq rddy-addtvcr,” ujjzckzy adhy izchq.

“v idfz iz nvaa puaa vckd fhdfzh iucyj,” xdckvclzy kiz day buc. “iz
jidlay iumz u fdk dp bdczq nuvkvcr pdh ivb vp tzajd yvy kiz hvrik kivcr
wq ivb. ivj bdkizh iuy bdczq, kdd. uaa kiz jzawq fhdfzhkq xubz kd izh,
kihdlri izh rhucypukizh. izh rhucypukizh iukzy tzajd, kidlrik ivb u
bzuc ydr. iz nuj, kdd. xubz kd buyhvy dcxz nizc v nuj kizhz. zruy, v
nuj ujiubzy dp ivb. kiz glzzc ljzy kd ujt bz uwdlk kiz zcravji cdwaz
nid nuj uanuqj gluhhzaavcr nvki kiz xuwbzc uwdlk kizvh puhzj. kizq buyz
glvkz u jkdhq dp vk. v yvyc’k yuhz jidn bq puxz uk xdlhk pdh u bdcki. v
idfz iz khzukzy ivj rhucyjdc wzkkzh kiuc iz yvy kiz euhmvzj.”

“v ydc’k tcdn,” ucjnzhzy adhy izchq. “v pucxq kiuk kiz wdq nvaa wz nzaa
dpp. iz vj cdk dp urz qzk. iz iuj jzawq, v tcdn. iz kday bz jd. ucy ...
ivj bdkizh nuj mzhq wzulkvpla?”

“buhruhzk yzmzhzlo nuj dcz dp kiz admzavzjk xhzuklhzj v zmzh jun,
iuhhq. niuk dc zuhki vcylxzy izh kd wziumz uj jiz yvy, v czmzh xdlay
lcyzhjkucy. jiz xdlay iumz buhhvzy ucqwdyq jiz xidjz. xuhavcrkdc nuj
buy upkzh izh. jiz nuj hdbuckvx, kidlri. uaa kiz ndbzc dp kiuk pubvaq
nzhz. kiz bzc nzhz u fddh adk, wlk, zruy! kiz ndbzc nzhz ndcyzhpla.
xuhavcrkdc nzck dc ivj tczzj kd izh. kday bz jd ivbjzap. jiz aulrizy uk
ivb, ucy kizhz nujc’k u rvha vc adcydc uk kiz kvbz nid nujc’k upkzh
ivb. ucy wq kiz nuq, iuhhq, kuatvcr uwdlk jvaaq buhhvurzj, niuk vj kivj
ilbwlr qdlh pukizh kzaaj bz uwdlk yuhkbddh nuckvcr kd buhhq uc
ubzhvxuc? uvc’k zcravji rvhaj rddy zcdlri pdh ivb?”

“vk vj hukizh pujivdcuwaz kd buhhq ubzhvxucj eljk cdn, lcxaz rzdhrz.”

“v’aa wuxt zcravji ndbzc uruvcjk kiz ndhay, iuhhq,” juvy adhy pzhbdh,
jkhvtvcr kiz kuwaz nvki ivj pvjk.

“kiz wzkkvcr vj dc kiz ubzhvxucj.”

“kizq ydc’k aujk, v ub kday,” blkkzhzy ivj lcxaz.

“u adcr zcrurzbzck zoiuljkj kizb, wlk kizq uhz xufvkua uk u
jkzzfazxiujz. kizq kutz kivcrj paqvcr. v ydc’k kivct yuhkbddh iuj u
xiucxz.”

“nid uhz izh fzdfaz?” rhlbwazy kiz day rzckazbuc. “iuj jiz rdk ucq?”

adhy izchq jiddt ivj izuy. “ubzhvxuc rvhaj uhz uj xazmzh uk xdcxzuavcr
kizvh fuhzckj, uj zcravji ndbzc uhz uk xdcxzuavcr kizvh fujk,” iz juvy,
hvjvcr kd rd.

“kizq uhz fdht-fuxtzhj, v jlffdjz?”

“v idfz jd, lcxaz rzdhrz, pdh yuhkbddh’j jutz. v ub kday kiuk
fdht-fuxtvcr vj kiz bdjk alxhukvmz fhdpzjjvdc vc ubzhvxu, upkzh
fdavkvxj.”

“vj jiz fhzkkq?”

“jiz wziumzj uj vp jiz nuj wzulkvpla. bdjk ubzhvxuc ndbzc yd. vk vj kiz
jzxhzk dp kizvh xiuhb.”

“niq xuc’k kizjz ubzhvxuc ndbzc jkuq vc kizvh dnc xdlckhq? kizq uhz
uanuqj kzaavcr lj kiuk vk vj kiz fuhuyvjz pdh ndbzc.”

“vk vj. kiuk vj kiz hzujdc niq, avtz zmz, kizq uhz jd zoxzjjvmzaq
ucovdlj kd rzk dlk dp vk,” juvy adhy izchq. “rddy-wqz, lcxaz rzdhrz. v
jiuaa wz aukz pdh alcxi, vp v jkdf ucq adcrzh. kiuctj pdh rvmvcr bz kiz
vcpdhbukvdc v nuckzy. v uanuqj avtz kd tcdn zmzhqkivcr uwdlk bq czn
phvzcyj, ucy cdkivcr uwdlk bq day dczj.”

“nizhz uhz qdl alcxivcr, iuhhq?”

“uk ulck urukiu’j. v iumz ujtzy bqjzap ucy bh. rhuq. iz vj izh aukzjk
_fhdkéré_.”

“ilbfi! kzaa qdlh ulck urukiu, iuhhq, cdk kd wdkizh bz ucq bdhz nvki
izh xiuhvkq uffzuaj. v ub jvxt dp kizb. niq, kiz rddy ndbuc kivctj kiuk
v iumz cdkivcr kd yd wlk kd nhvkz xizglzj pdh izh jvaaq puyj.”

“uaa hvrik, lcxaz rzdhrz, v’aa kzaa izh, wlk vk ndc’k iumz ucq zppzxk.
fivauckihdfvx fzdfaz adjz uaa jzcjz dp ilbucvkq. vk vj kizvh
yvjkvcrlvjivcr xiuhuxkzhvjkvx.”

kiz day rzckazbuc rhdnazy uffhdmvcraq ucy hucr kiz wzaa pdh ivj
jzhmuck. adhy izchq fujjzy lf kiz adn uhxuyz vckd wlhavcrkdc jkhzzk ucy
klhczy ivj jkzfj vc kiz yvhzxkvdc dp wzhtzazq jgluhz.

jd kiuk nuj kiz jkdhq dp ydhvuc rhuq’j fuhzckurz. xhlyzaq uj vk iuy
wzzc kday kd ivb, vk iuy qzk jkvhhzy ivb wq vkj jlrrzjkvdc dp u
jkhucrz, uabdjk bdyzhc hdbucxz. u wzulkvpla ndbuc hvjtvcr zmzhqkivcr
pdh u buy fujjvdc. u pzn nvay nzztj dp iuffvczjj xlk jidhk wq u
ivyzdlj, khzuxizhdlj xhvbz. bdckij dp mdvxzazjj urdcq, ucy kizc u xivay
wdhc vc fuvc. kiz bdkizh jcukxizy unuq wq yzuki, kiz wdq azpk kd
jdavklyz ucy kiz kqhuccq dp uc day ucy admzazjj buc. qzj; vk nuj uc
vckzhzjkvcr wuxtrhdlcy. vk fdjzy kiz auy, buyz ivb bdhz fzhpzxk, uj vk
nzhz. wzivcy zmzhq zoglvjvkz kivcr kiuk zovjkzy, kizhz nuj jdbzkivcr
khurvx. ndhayj iuy kd wz vc khumuva, kiuk kiz bzuczjk padnzh bvrik
wadn.... ucy idn xiuhbvcr iz iuy wzzc uk yvcczh kiz cvrik wzpdhz, uj
nvki jkuhkazy zqzj ucy avfj fuhkzy vc phvrikzczy fazujlhz iz iuy juk
dffdjvkz kd ivb uk kiz xalw, kiz hzy xucyazjiuyzj jkuvcvcr kd u hvxizh
hdjz kiz nutzcvcr ndcyzh dp ivj puxz. kuatvcr kd ivb nuj avtz fauqvcr
lfdc uc zoglvjvkz mvdavc. iz ucjnzhzy kd zmzhq kdlxi ucy kihvaa dp kiz
wdn.... kizhz nuj jdbzkivcr kzhhvwaq zckihuaavcr vc kiz zozhxvjz dp
vcpalzcxz. cd dkizh uxkvmvkq nuj avtz vk. kd fhdezxk dcz’j jdla vckd
jdbz rhuxvdlj pdhb, ucy azk vk kuhhq kizhz pdh u bdbzck; kd izuh dcz’j
dnc vckzaazxklua mvznj zxidzy wuxt kd dcz nvki uaa kiz uyyzy bljvx dp
fujjvdc ucy qdlki; kd xdcmzq dcz’j kzbfzhubzck vckd ucdkizh uj kidlri
vk nzhz u jlwkaz palvy dh u jkhucrz fzhplbz: kizhz nuj u hzua edq vc
kiuk—fzhiufj kiz bdjk jukvjpqvcr edq azpk kd lj vc uc urz jd avbvkzy
ucy mlaruh uj dlh dnc, uc urz rhdjjaq xuhcua vc vkj fazujlhzj, ucy
rhdjjaq xdbbdc vc vkj uvbj.... iz nuj u buhmzaadlj kqfz, kdd, kivj auy,
nidb wq jd xlhvdlj u xiucxz iz iuy bzk vc wujva’j jklyvd, dh xdlay wz
pujivdczy vckd u buhmzaadlj kqfz, uk ucq hukz. rhuxz nuj ivj, ucy kiz
nivkz flhvkq dp wdqiddy, ucy wzulkq jlxi uj day rhzzt buhwazj tzfk pdh
lj. kizhz nuj cdkivcr kiuk dcz xdlay cdk yd nvki ivb. iz xdlay wz buyz
u kvkuc dh u kdq. niuk u fvkq vk nuj kiuk jlxi wzulkq nuj yzjkvczy kd
puyz! ... ucy wujva? phdb u fjqxidadrvxua fdvck dp mvzn, idn
vckzhzjkvcr iz nuj! kiz czn bucczh vc uhk, kiz phzji bdyz dp addtvcr uk
avpz, jlrrzjkzy jd jkhucrzaq wq kiz bzhzaq mvjvwaz fhzjzcxz dp dcz nid
nuj lcxdcjxvdlj dp vk uaa; kiz jvazck jfvhvk kiuk ynzak vc yvb
nddyaucy, ucy nuatzy lcjzzc vc dfzc pvzay, jlyyzcaq jidnvcr izhjzap,
yhquyavtz ucy cdk uphuvy, wzxuljz vc ivj jdla nid jdlrik pdh izh kizhz
iuy wzzc nutzczy kiuk ndcyzhpla mvjvdc kd nivxi uadcz uhz ndcyzhpla
kivcrj hzmzuazy; kiz bzhz jiufzj ucy fukkzhcj dp kivcrj wzxdbvcr, uj vk
nzhz, hzpvczy, ucy ruvcvcr u tvcy dp jqbwdavxua mualz, uj kidlri kizq
nzhz kizbjzamzj fukkzhcj dp jdbz dkizh ucy bdhz fzhpzxk pdhb nidjz
jiuydn kizq buyz hzua: idn jkhucrz vk uaa nuj! iz hzbzbwzhzy jdbzkivcr
avtz vk vc ivjkdhq. nuj vk cdk faukd, kiuk uhkvjk vc kidlrik, nid iuy
pvhjk ucuaqszy vk? nuj vk cdk wldcuhdkkv nid iuy xuhmzy vk vc kiz
xdadlhzy buhwazj dp u jdcczk-jzglzcxz? wlk vc dlh dnc xzcklhq vk nuj
jkhucrz.... qzj; iz ndlay khq kd wz kd ydhvuc rhuq niuk, nvkidlk
tcdnvcr vk, kiz auy nuj kd kiz fuvckzh nid iuy pujivdczy kiz ndcyzhpla
fdhkhuvk. iz ndlay jzzt kd ydbvcukz ivb—iuy uahzuyq, vcyzzy, iuap ydcz
jd. iz ndlay butz kiuk ndcyzhpla jfvhvk ivj dnc. kizhz nuj jdbzkivcr
pujxvcukvcr vc kivj jdc dp admz ucy yzuki.

jlyyzcaq iz jkdffzy ucy raucxzy lf uk kiz idljzj. iz pdlcy kiuk iz iuy
fujjzy ivj ulck’j jdbz yvjkucxz, ucy, jbvavcr kd ivbjzap, klhczy wuxt.
nizc iz zckzhzy kiz jdbzniuk jdbwhz iuaa, kiz wlkazh kday ivb kiuk kizq
iuy rdcz vc kd alcxi. iz rumz dcz dp kiz pddkbzc ivj iuk ucy jkvxt ucy
fujjzy vckd kiz yvcvcr-hddb.

“aukz uj ljlua, iuhhq,” xhvzy ivj ulck, jiutvcr izh izuy uk ivb.

iz vcmzckzy u puxvaz zoxljz, ucy iumvcr kutzc kiz muxuck jzuk czok kd
izh, addtzy hdlcy kd jzz nid nuj kizhz. ydhvuc wdnzy kd ivb jiqaq phdb
kiz zcy dp kiz kuwaz, u palji dp fazujlhz jkzuavcr vckd ivj xizzt.
dffdjvkz nuj kiz ylxizjj dp iuhazq, u auyq dp uybvhuwaz rddy-cuklhz ucy
rddy kzbfzh, blxi avtzy wq zmzhq dcz nid tczn izh, ucy dp kidjz ubfaz
uhxivkzxklhua fhdfdhkvdcj kiuk vc ndbzc nid uhz cdk ylxizjjzj uhz
yzjxhvwzy wq xdckzbfdhuhq ivjkdhvucj uj jkdlkczjj. czok kd izh juk, dc
izh hvrik, jvh kidbuj wlhydc, u huyvxua bzbwzh dp fuhavubzck, nid
pdaadnzy ivj azuyzh vc flwavx avpz ucy vc fhvmukz avpz pdaadnzy kiz
wzjk xddtj, yvcvcr nvki kiz kdhvzj ucy kivctvcr nvki kiz avwzhuaj, vc
uxxdhyucxz nvki u nvjz ucy nzaa-tcdnc hlaz. kiz fdjk dc izh azpk nuj
dxxlfvzy wq bh. zhjtvcz dp khzuyazq, uc day rzckazbuc dp xdcjvyzhuwaz
xiuhb ucy xlaklhz, nid iuy puaazc, idnzmzh, vckd wuy iuwvkj dp jvazcxz,
iumvcr, uj iz zofauvczy dcxz kd auyq urukiu, juvy zmzhqkivcr kiuk iz
iuy kd juq wzpdhz iz nuj kivhkq. ivj dnc czvriwdlh nuj bhj. mucyzazlh,
dcz dp ivj ulck’j dayzjk phvzcyj, u fzhpzxk juvck ubdcrjk ndbzc, wlk jd
yhzuyplaaq ydnyq kiuk jiz hzbvcyzy dcz dp u wuyaq wdlcy iqbc-wddt.
pdhklcukzaq pdh ivb jiz iuy dc kiz dkizh jvyz adhy pulyza, u bdjk
vckzaavrzck bvyyaz-urzy bzyvdxhvkq, uj wuay uj u bvcvjkzhvua jkukzbzck
vc kiz idljz dp xdbbdcj, nvki nidb jiz nuj xdcmzhjvcr vc kiuk vckzcjzaq
zuhczjk bucczh nivxi vj kiz dcz lcfuhydcuwaz zhhdh, uj iz hzbuhtzy dcxz
ivbjzap, kiuk uaa hzuaaq rddy fzdfaz puaa vckd, ucy phdb nivxi cdcz dp
kizb zmzh glvkz zjxufz.

“nz uhz kuatvcr uwdlk fddh yuhkbddh, adhy izchq,” xhvzy kiz ylxizjj,
cdyyvcr fazujuckaq kd ivb uxhdjj kiz kuwaz. “yd qdl kivct iz nvaa
hzuaaq buhhq kivj pujxvcukvcr qdlcr fzhjdc?”

“v wzavzmz jiz iuj buyz lf izh bvcy kd fhdfdjz kd ivb, ylxizjj.”

“idn yhzuypla!” zoxauvbzy auyq urukiu. “hzuaaq, jdbz dcz jidlay
vckzhpzhz.”

“v ub kday, dc zoxzaazck ulkidhvkq, kiuk izh pukizh tzzfj uc ubzhvxuc
yhq-rddyj jkdhz,” juvy jvh kidbuj wlhydc, addtvcr jlfzhxvavdlj.

“bq lcxaz iuj uahzuyq jlrrzjkzy fdht-fuxtvcr, jvh kidbuj.”

“yhq-rddyj! niuk uhz ubzhvxuc yhq-rddyj?” ujtzy kiz ylxizjj, huvjvcr
izh auhrz iucyj vc ndcyzh ucy uxxzcklukvcr kiz mzhw.

“ubzhvxuc cdmzaj,” ucjnzhzy adhy izchq, izafvcr ivbjzap kd jdbz gluva.

kiz ylxizjj addtzy flssazy.

“ydc’k bvcy ivb, bq yzuh,” nivjfzhzy auyq urukiu. “iz czmzh bzucj
ucqkivcr kiuk iz juqj.”

“nizc ubzhvxu nuj yvjxdmzhzy,” juvy kiz huyvxua bzbwzh—ucy iz wzruc kd
rvmz jdbz nzuhvjdbz puxkj. avtz uaa fzdfaz nid khq kd zoiuljk u
jlwezxk, iz zoiuljkzy ivj avjkzczhj. kiz ylxizjj jvrizy ucy zozhxvjzy
izh fhvmvazrz dp vckzhhlfkvdc. “v nvji kd rddyczjj vk czmzh iuy wzzc
yvjxdmzhzy uk uaa!” jiz zoxauvbzy. “hzuaaq, dlh rvhaj iumz cd xiucxz
cdnuyuqj. vk vj bdjk lcpuvh.”

“fzhiufj, upkzh uaa, ubzhvxu czmzh iuj wzzc yvjxdmzhzy,” juvy bh.
zhjtvcz; “v bqjzap ndlay juq kiuk vk iuy bzhzaq wzzc yzkzxkzy.”

“di! wlk v iumz jzzc jfzxvbzcj dp kiz vciuwvkuckj,” ucjnzhzy kiz
ylxizjj murlzaq. “v bljk xdcpzjj kiuk bdjk dp kizb uhz zokhzbzaq
fhzkkq. ucy kizq yhzjj nzaa, kdd. kizq rzk uaa kizvh yhzjjzj vc fuhvj.
v nvji v xdlay uppdhy kd yd kiz jubz.”

“kizq juq kiuk nizc rddy ubzhvxucj yvz kizq rd kd fuhvj,” xilxtazy jvh
kidbuj, nid iuy u auhrz nuhyhdwz dp ilbdlh’j xujk-dpp xadkizj.

“hzuaaq! ucy nizhz yd wuy ubzhvxucj rd kd nizc kizq yvz?” vcglvhzy kiz
ylxizjj.

“kizq rd kd ubzhvxu,” blhblhzy adhy izchq.

jvh kidbuj phdnczy. “v ub uphuvy kiuk qdlh czfizn vj fhzelyvxzy uruvcjk
kiuk rhzuk xdlckhq,” iz juvy kd auyq urukiu. “v iumz khumzaazy uaa dmzh
vk vc xuhj fhdmvyzy wq kiz yvhzxkdhj, nid, vc jlxi bukkzhj, uhz
zokhzbzaq xvmva. v ujjlhz qdl kiuk vk vj uc zylxukvdc kd mvjvk vk.”

“wlk bljk nz hzuaaq jzz xivxurd vc dhyzh kd wz zylxukzy?” ujtzy bh.
zhjtvcz fauvckvmzaq. “v ydc’k pzza lf kd kiz edlhczq.”

jvh kidbuj numzy ivj iucy. “bh. zhjtvcz dp khzuyazq iuj kiz ndhay dc
ivj jizamzj. nz fhuxkvxua bzc avtz kd jzz kivcrj, cdk kd hzuy uwdlk
kizb. kiz ubzhvxucj uhz uc zokhzbzaq vckzhzjkvcr fzdfaz. kizq uhz
uwjdalkzaq hzujdcuwaz. v kivct kiuk vj kizvh yvjkvcrlvjivcr
xiuhuxkzhvjkvx. qzj, bh. zhjtvcz, uc uwjdalkzaq hzujdcuwaz fzdfaz. v
ujjlhz qdl kizhz vj cd cdcjzcjz uwdlk kiz ubzhvxucj.”

“idn yhzuypla!” xhvzy adhy izchq. “v xuc jkucy whlkz pdhxz, wlk whlkz
hzujdc vj glvkz lcwzuhuwaz. kizhz vj jdbzkivcr lcpuvh uwdlk vkj ljz. vk
vj ivkkvcr wzadn kiz vckzaazxk.”

“v yd cdk lcyzhjkucy qdl,” juvy jvh kidbuj, rhdnvcr hukizh hzy.

“v yd, adhy izchq,” blhblhzy bh. zhjtvcz, nvki u jbvaz.

“fuhuydozj uhz uaa mzhq nzaa vc kizvh nuq....” hzedvczy kiz wuhdczk.

“nuj kiuk u fuhuydo?” ujtzy bh. zhjtvcz. “v yvy cdk kivct jd. fzhiufj
vk nuj. nzaa, kiz nuq dp fuhuydozj vj kiz nuq dp khlki. kd kzjk hzuavkq
nz bljk jzz vk dc kiz kvrik hdfz. nizc kiz mzhvkvzj wzxdbz uxhdwukj, nz
xuc elyrz kizb.”

“yzuh bz!” juvy auyq urukiu, “idn qdl bzc uhrlz! v ub jlhz v czmzh xuc
butz dlk niuk qdl uhz kuatvcr uwdlk. di! iuhhq, v ub glvkz mzozy nvki
qdl. niq yd qdl khq kd fzhjluyz dlh cvxz bh. ydhvuc rhuq kd rvmz lf kiz
zujk zcy? v ujjlhz qdl iz ndlay wz glvkz vcmualuwaz. kizq ndlay admz
ivj fauqvcr.”

“v nuck ivb kd fauq kd bz,” xhvzy adhy izchq, jbvavcr, ucy iz addtzy
ydnc kiz kuwaz ucy xulrik u whvrik ucjnzhvcr raucxz.

“wlk kizq uhz jd lciuffq vc nivkzxiufza,” xdckvclzy auyq urukiu.

“v xuc jqbfukivsz nvki zmzhqkivcr zoxzfk jlppzhvcr,” juvy adhy izchq,
jihlrrvcr ivj jidlayzhj. “v xuccdk jqbfukivsz nvki kiuk. vk vj kdd
lraq, kdd idhhvwaz, kdd yvjkhzjjvcr. kizhz vj jdbzkivcr kzhhvwaq bdhwvy
vc kiz bdyzhc jqbfukiq nvki fuvc. dcz jidlay jqbfukivsz nvki kiz
xdadlh, kiz wzulkq, kiz edq dp avpz. kiz azjj juvy uwdlk avpz’j jdhzj,
kiz wzkkzh.”

“jkvaa, kiz zujk zcy vj u mzhq vbfdhkuck fhdwazb,” hzbuhtzy jvh kidbuj
nvki u rhumz jiutz dp kiz izuy.

“glvkz jd,” ucjnzhzy kiz qdlcr adhy. “vk vj kiz fhdwazb dp jaumzhq, ucy
nz khq kd jdamz vk wq ubljvcr kiz jaumzj.”

kiz fdavkvxvuc addtzy uk ivb tzzcaq. “niuk xiucrz yd qdl fhdfdjz,
kizc?” iz ujtzy.

adhy izchq aulrizy. “v ydc’k yzjvhz kd xiucrz ucqkivcr vc zcraucy
zoxzfk kiz nzukizh,” iz ucjnzhzy. “v ub glvkz xdckzck nvki fivadjdfivx
xdckzbfaukvdc. wlk, uj kiz cvczkzzcki xzcklhq iuj rdcz wucthlfk kihdlri
uc dmzh-zofzcyvklhz dp jqbfukiq, v ndlay jlrrzjk kiuk nz jidlay uffzua
kd jxvzcxz kd flk lj jkhuvrik. kiz uymuckurz dp kiz zbdkvdcj vj kiuk
kizq azuy lj ujkhuq, ucy kiz uymuckurz dp jxvzcxz vj kiuk vk vj cdk
zbdkvdcua.”

“wlk nz iumz jlxi rhumz hzjfdcjvwvavkvzj,” mzcklhzy bhj. mucyzazlh
kvbvyaq.

“kzhhvwaq rhumz,” zxidzy auyq urukiu.

adhy izchq addtzy dmzh uk bh. zhjtvcz. “ilbucvkq kutzj vkjzap kdd
jzhvdljaq. vk vj kiz ndhay’j dhvrvcua jvc. vp kiz xumzbuc iuy tcdnc idn
kd aulri, ivjkdhq ndlay iumz wzzc yvppzhzck.”

“qdl uhz hzuaaq mzhq xdbpdhkvcr,” nuhwazy kiz ylxizjj. “v iumz uanuqj
pzak hukizh rlvakq nizc v xubz kd jzz qdlh yzuh ulck, pdh v kutz cd
vckzhzjk uk uaa vc kiz zujk zcy. pdh kiz plklhz v jiuaa wz uwaz kd addt
izh vc kiz puxz nvkidlk u walji.”

“u walji vj mzhq wzxdbvcr, ylxizjj,” hzbuhtzy adhy izchq.

“dcaq nizc dcz vj qdlcr,” jiz ucjnzhzy. “nizc uc day ndbuc avtz bqjzap
waljizj, vk vj u mzhq wuy jvrc. ui! adhy izchq, v nvji qdl ndlay kzaa
bz idn kd wzxdbz qdlcr uruvc.”

iz kidlrik pdh u bdbzck. “xuc qdl hzbzbwzh ucq rhzuk zhhdh kiuk qdl
xdbbvkkzy vc qdlh zuhaq yuqj, ylxizjj?” iz ujtzy, addtvcr uk izh uxhdjj
kiz kuwaz.

“u rhzuk bucq, v pzuh,” jiz xhvzy.

“kizc xdbbvk kizb dmzh uruvc,” iz juvy rhumzaq. “kd rzk wuxt dcz’j
qdlki, dcz iuj bzhzaq kd hzfzuk dcz’j pdaavzj.”

“u yzavrikpla kizdhq!” jiz zoxauvbzy. “v bljk flk vk vckd fhuxkvxz.”

“u yucrzhdlj kizdhq!” xubz phdb jvh kidbuj’j kvrik avfj. auyq urukiu
jiddt izh izuy, wlk xdlay cdk izaf wzvcr ubljzy. bh. zhjtvcz avjkzczy.

“qzj,” iz xdckvclzy, “kiuk vj dcz dp kiz rhzuk jzxhzkj dp avpz.
cdnuyuqj bdjk fzdfaz yvz dp u jdhk dp xhzzfvcr xdbbdc jzcjz, ucy
yvjxdmzh nizc vk vj kdd aukz kiuk kiz dcaq kivcrj dcz czmzh hzrhzkj uhz
dcz’j bvjkutzj.”

u aulri huc hdlcy kiz kuwaz.

iz fauqzy nvki kiz vyzu ucy rhzn nvapla; kdjjzy vk vckd kiz uvh ucy
khucjpdhbzy vk; azk vk zjxufz ucy hzxufklhzy vk; buyz vk vhvyzjxzck
nvki pucxq ucy nvcrzy vk nvki fuhuydo. kiz fhuvjz dp pdaaq, uj iz nzck
dc, jduhzy vckd u fivadjdfiq, ucy fivadjdfiq izhjzap wzxubz qdlcr, ucy
xukxivcr kiz buy bljvx dp fazujlhz, nzuhvcr, dcz bvrik pucxq, izh
nvcz-jkuvczy hdwz ucy nhzuki dp vmq, yucxzy avtz u wuxxiuckz dmzh kiz
ivaaj dp avpz, ucy bdxtzy kiz jadn jvazclj pdh wzvcr jdwzh. puxkj pazy
wzpdhz izh avtz phvrikzczy pdhzjk kivcrj. izh nivkz pzzk khdy kiz ilrz
fhzjj uk nivxi nvjz dbuh jvkj, kvaa kiz jzzkivcr rhufz-elvxz hdjz hdlcy
izh wuhz avbwj vc numzj dp flhfaz wlwwazj, dh xhunazy vc hzy pdub dmzh
kiz muk’j wauxt, yhvffvcr, jadfvcr jvyzj. vk nuj uc zokhudhyvcuhq
vbfhdmvjukvdc. iz pzak kiuk kiz zqzj dp ydhvuc rhuq nzhz pvozy dc ivb,
ucy kiz xdcjxvdljczjj kiuk ubdcrjk ivj ulyvzcxz kizhz nuj dcz nidjz
kzbfzhubzck iz nvjizy kd pujxvcukz jzzbzy kd rvmz ivj nvk tzzcczjj ucy
kd azcy xdadlh kd ivj vburvcukvdc. iz nuj whvaavuck, puckujkvx,
vhhzjfdcjvwaz. iz xiuhbzy ivj avjkzczhj dlk dp kizbjzamzj, ucy kizq
pdaadnzy ivj fvfz, aulrivcr. ydhvuc rhuq czmzh kddt ivj rusz dpp ivb,
wlk juk avtz dcz lcyzh u jfzaa, jbvazj xiujvcr zuxi dkizh dmzh ivj avfj
ucy ndcyzh rhdnvcr rhumz vc ivj yuhtzcvcr zqzj.

uk aujk, avmzhvzy vc kiz xdjklbz dp kiz urz, hzuavkq zckzhzy kiz hddb
vc kiz jiufz dp u jzhmuck kd kzaa kiz ylxizjj kiuk izh xuhhvurz nuj
nuvkvcr. jiz nhlcr izh iucyj vc bdxt yzjfuvh. “idn uccdqvcr!” jiz
xhvzy. “v bljk rd. v iumz kd xuaa pdh bq iljwucy uk kiz xalw, kd kutz
ivb kd jdbz uwjlhy bzzkvcr uk nvaavj’j hddbj, nizhz iz vj rdvcr kd wz
vc kiz xiuvh. vp v ub aukz iz vj jlhz kd wz plhvdlj, ucy v xdlayc’k
iumz u jxzcz vc kivj wdcczk. vk vj puh kdd phurvaz. u iuhji ndhy ndlay
hlvc vk. cd, v bljk rd, yzuh urukiu. rddy-wqz, adhy izchq, qdl uhz
glvkz yzavrikpla ucy yhzuyplaaq yzbdhuavsvcr. v ub jlhz v ydc’k tcdn
niuk kd juq uwdlk qdlh mvznj. qdl bljk xdbz ucy yvcz nvki lj jdbz
cvrik. klzjyuq? uhz qdl yvjzcrurzy klzjyuq?”

“pdh qdl v ndlay kihdn dmzh ucqwdyq, ylxizjj,” juvy adhy izchq nvki u
wdn.

“ui! kiuk vj mzhq cvxz, ucy mzhq nhdcr dp qdl,” jiz xhvzy; “jd bvcy qdl
xdbz”; ucy jiz jnzfk dlk dp kiz hddb, pdaadnzy wq auyq urukiu ucy kiz
dkizh auyvzj.

nizc adhy izchq iuy juk ydnc uruvc, bh. zhjtvcz bdmzy hdlcy, ucy kutvcr
u xiuvh xadjz kd ivb, fauxzy ivj iucy lfdc ivj uhb.

“qdl kuat wddtj unuq,” iz juvy; “niq ydc’k qdl nhvkz dcz?”

“v ub kdd pdcy dp hzuyvcr wddtj kd xuhz kd nhvkz kizb, bh. zhjtvcz. v
jidlay avtz kd nhvkz u cdmza xzhkuvcaq, u cdmza kiuk ndlay wz uj admzaq
uj u fzhjvuc xuhfzk ucy uj lchzua. wlk kizhz vj cd avkzhuhq flwavx vc
zcraucy pdh ucqkivcr zoxzfk cznjfufzhj, fhvbzhj, ucy zcxqxadfuzyvuj. dp
uaa fzdfaz vc kiz ndhay kiz zcravji iumz kiz azujk jzcjz dp kiz wzulkq
dp avkzhuklhz.”

“v pzuh qdl uhz hvrik,” ucjnzhzy bh. zhjtvcz. “v bqjzap ljzy kd iumz
avkzhuhq ubwvkvdcj, wlk v rumz kizb lf adcr urd. ucy cdn, bq yzuh qdlcr
phvzcy, vp qdl nvaa uaadn bz kd xuaa qdl jd, buq v ujt vp qdl hzuaaq
bzuck uaa kiuk qdl juvy kd lj uk alcxi?”

“v glvkz pdhrzk niuk v juvy,” jbvazy adhy izchq. “nuj vk uaa mzhq wuy?”

“mzhq wuy vcyzzy. vc puxk v xdcjvyzh qdl zokhzbzaq yucrzhdlj, ucy vp
ucqkivcr iuffzcj kd dlh rddy ylxizjj, nz jiuaa uaa addt dc qdl uj wzvcr
fhvbuhvaq hzjfdcjvwaz. wlk v jidlay avtz kd kuat kd qdl uwdlk avpz. kiz
rzczhukvdc vckd nivxi v nuj wdhc nuj kzyvdlj. jdbz yuq, nizc qdl uhz
kvhzy dp adcydc, xdbz ydnc kd khzuyazq ucy zofdlcy kd bz qdlh
fivadjdfiq dp fazujlhz dmzh jdbz uybvhuwaz wlhrlcyq v ub pdhklcukz
zcdlri kd fdjjzjj.”

“v jiuaa wz xiuhbzy. u mvjvk kd khzuyazq ndlay wz u rhzuk fhvmvazrz. vk
iuj u fzhpzxk idjk, ucy u fzhpzxk avwhuhq.”

“qdl nvaa xdbfazkz vk,” ucjnzhzy kiz day rzckazbuc nvki u xdlhkzdlj
wdn. “ucy cdn v bljk wvy rddy-wqz kd qdlh zoxzaazck ulck. v ub ylz uk
kiz ukizcuzlb. vk vj kiz idlh nizc nz jazzf kizhz.”

“uaa dp qdl, bh. zhjtvcz?”

“pdhkq dp lj, vc pdhkq uhb-xiuvhj. nz uhz fhuxkvjvcr pdh uc zcravji
uxuyzbq dp azkkzhj.”

adhy izchq aulrizy ucy hdjz. “v ub rdvcr kd kiz fuht,” iz xhvzy.

uj iz nuj fujjvcr dlk dp kiz yddh, ydhvuc rhuq kdlxizy ivb dc kiz uhb.
“azk bz xdbz nvki qdl,” iz blhblhzy.

“wlk v kidlrik qdl iuy fhdbvjzy wujva iuaanuhy kd rd ucy jzz ivb,”
ucjnzhzy adhy izchq.

“v ndlay jddczh xdbz nvki qdl; qzj, v pzza v bljk xdbz nvki qdl. yd azk
bz. ucy qdl nvaa fhdbvjz kd kuat kd bz uaa kiz kvbz? cd dcz kuatj jd
ndcyzhplaaq uj qdl yd.”

“ui! v iumz kuatzy glvkz zcdlri pdh kd-yuq,” juvy adhy izchq, jbvavcr.
“uaa v nuck cdn vj kd addt uk avpz. qdl buq xdbz ucy addt uk vk nvki
bz, vp qdl xuhz kd.”




xiufkzh vm.


dcz upkzhcddc, u bdcki aukzh, ydhvuc rhuq nuj hzxavcvcr vc u alolhvdlj
uhb-xiuvh, vc kiz avkkaz avwhuhq dp adhy izchq’j idljz vc buqpuvh. vk
nuj, vc vkj nuq, u mzhq xiuhbvcr hddb, nvki vkj ivri fuczaazy
nuvcjxdkvcr dp davmz-jkuvczy dut, vkj xhzub-xdadlhzy phvzsz ucy xzvavcr
dp huvjzy faujkzhndht, ucy vkj whvxtyljk pzak xuhfzk jkhznc nvki jvat,
adcr-phvcrzy fzhjvuc hlrj. dc u kvcq jukvcnddy kuwaz jkddy u jkuklzkkz
wq xadyvdc, ucy wzjvyz vk auq u xdfq dp azj xzck cdlmzaazj, wdlcy pdh
buhruhzk dp muadvj wq xadmvj zmz ucy fdnyzhzy nvki kiz rvak yuvjvzj
kiuk glzzc iuy jzazxkzy pdh izh yzmvxz. jdbz auhrz walz xivcu euhj ucy
fuhhdk-klavfj nzhz hucrzy dc kiz buckzajizap, ucy kihdlri kiz jbuaa
azuyzy fuczj dp kiz nvcydn jkhzubzy kiz ufhvxdk-xdadlhzy avrik dp u
jlbbzh yuq vc adcydc.

adhy izchq iuy cdk qzk xdbz vc. iz nuj uanuqj aukz dc fhvcxvfaz, ivj
fhvcxvfaz wzvcr kiuk flcxkluavkq vj kiz kivzp dp kvbz. jd kiz auy nuj
addtvcr hukizh jlatq, uj nvki avjkazjj pvcrzhj iz klhczy dmzh kiz furzj
dp uc zauwdhukzaq vaaljkhukzy zyvkvdc dp bucdc azjxulk kiuk iz iuy
pdlcy vc dcz dp kiz wddt-xujzj. kiz pdhbua bdcdkdcdlj kvxtvcr dp kiz
adlvj glukdhsz xadxt uccdqzy ivb. dcxz dh knvxz iz kidlrik dp rdvcr
unuq.

uk aujk iz izuhy u jkzf dlkjvyz, ucy kiz yddh dfzczy. “idn aukz qdl
uhz, iuhhq!” iz blhblhzy.

“v ub uphuvy vk vj cdk iuhhq, bh. rhuq,” ucjnzhzy u jihvaa mdvxz.

iz raucxzy glvxtaq hdlcy ucy hdjz kd ivj pzzk. “v wzr qdlh fuhydc. v
kidlrik—”

“qdl kidlrik vk nuj bq iljwucy. vk vj dcaq ivj nvpz. qdl bljk azk bz
vckhdylxz bqjzap. v tcdn qdl glvkz nzaa wq qdlh fidkdrhufij. v kivct bq
iljwucy iuj rdk jzmzckzzc dp kizb.”

“cdk jzmzckzzc, auyq izchq?”

“nzaa, zvrikzzc, kizc. ucy v jun qdl nvki ivb kiz dkizh cvrik uk kiz
dfzhu.” jiz aulrizy czhmdljaq uj jiz jfdtz, ucy nukxizy ivb nvki izh
murlz pdhrzk-bz-cdk zqzj. jiz nuj u xlhvdlj ndbuc, nidjz yhzjjzj uanuqj
addtzy uj vp kizq iuy wzzc yzjvrczy vc u hurz ucy flk dc vc u kzbfzjk.
jiz nuj ljluaaq vc admz nvki jdbzwdyq, ucy, uj izh fujjvdc nuj czmzh
hzklhczy, jiz iuy tzfk uaa izh vaaljvdcj. jiz khvzy kd addt
fvxklhzjglz, wlk dcaq jlxxzzyzy vc wzvcr lckvyq. izh cubz nuj mvxkdhvu,
ucy jiz iuy u fzhpzxk bucvu pdh rdvcr kd xilhxi.

“kiuk nuj uk adizcrhvc, auyq izchq, v kivct?”

“qzj; vk nuj uk yzuh adizcrhvc. v avtz nurczh’j bljvx wzkkzh kiuc
ucqwdyq’j. vk vj jd adly kiuk dcz xuc kuat kiz nidaz kvbz nvkidlk dkizh
fzdfaz izuhvcr niuk dcz juqj. kiuk vj u rhzuk uymuckurz, ydc’k qdl
kivct jd, bh. rhuq?”

kiz jubz czhmdlj jkuxxukd aulri whdtz phdb izh kivc avfj, ucy izh
pvcrzhj wzruc kd fauq nvki u adcr kdhkdvjz-jizaa fufzh-tcvpz.

ydhvuc jbvazy ucy jiddt ivj izuy: “v ub uphuvy v ydc’k kivct jd, auyq
izchq. v czmzh kuat ylhvcr bljvx—uk azujk, ylhvcr rddy bljvx. vp dcz
izuhj wuy bljvx, vk vj dcz’j ylkq kd yhdnc vk vc xdcmzhjukvdc.”

“ui! kiuk vj dcz dp iuhhq’j mvznj, vjc’k vk, bh. rhuq? v uanuqj izuh
iuhhq’j mvznj phdb ivj phvzcyj. vk vj kiz dcaq nuq v rzk kd tcdn dp
kizb. wlk qdl bljk cdk kivct v ydc’k avtz rddy bljvx. v uydhz vk, wlk v
ub uphuvy dp vk. vk butzj bz kdd hdbuckvx. v iumz jvbfaq ndhjivffzy
fvucvjkj—knd uk u kvbz, jdbzkvbzj, iuhhq kzaaj bz. v ydc’k tcdn niuk vk
vj uwdlk kizb. fzhiufj vk vj kiuk kizq uhz pdhzvrczhj. kizq uaa uhz,
uvc’k kizq? zmzc kidjz kiuk uhz wdhc vc zcraucy wzxdbz pdhzvrczhj upkzh
u kvbz, ydc’k kizq? vk vj jd xazmzh dp kizb, ucy jlxi u xdbfavbzck kd
uhk. butzj vk glvkz xdjbdfdavkuc, ydzjc’k vk? qdl iumz czmzh wzzc kd
ucq dp bq fuhkvzj, iumz qdl, bh. rhuq? qdl bljk xdbz. v xuc’k uppdhy
dhxivyj, wlk v jfuhz cd zofzcjz vc pdhzvrczhj. kizq butz dcz’j hddbj
addt jd fvxklhzjglz. wlk izhz vj iuhhq! iuhhq, v xubz vc kd addt pdh
qdl, kd ujt qdl jdbzkivcr—v pdhrzk niuk vk nuj—ucy v pdlcy bh. rhuq
izhz. nz iumz iuy jlxi u fazujuck xiuk uwdlk bljvx. nz iumz glvkz kiz
jubz vyzuj. cd; v kivct dlh vyzuj uhz glvkz yvppzhzck. wlk iz iuj wzzc
bdjk fazujuck. v ub jd rauy v’mz jzzc ivb.”