mkz vjmalm al mkz xjzvmgj gp wzvnmapnd mkafol. mg jzqzvd vjm vfy
xgfxzvd mkz vjmalm al vjm’l vae. mkz xjamax al kz rkg xvf mjvfldvmz
afmg vfgmkzj evffzj gj v fzr evmzjavd kal aehjzllagf gp wzvnmapnd
mkafol.

mkz kaokzlm vl mkz dgrzlm pgje gp xjamaxale al v egyz gp vnmgwagojvhkt.
mkglz rkg pafy nodt ezvfafol af wzvnmapnd mkafol vjz xgjjnhm ramkgnm
wzafo xkvjeafo. mkal al v pvndm.

mkglz rkg pafy wzvnmapnd ezvfafol af wzvnmapnd mkafol vjz mkz
xndmaqvmzy. pgj mkzlz mkzjz al kghz. mkzt vjz mkz zdzxm mg rkge
wzvnmapnd mkafol ezvf gfdt wzvnmt.

mkzjz al fg lnxk mkafo vl v egjvd gj vf aeegjvd wggc. wggcl vjz rzdd
rjammzf, gj wvydt rjammzf. mkvm al vdd.

mkz fafzmzzfmk xzfmnjt yaldacz gp jzvdale al mkz jvoz gp xvdawvf lzzafo
kal grf pvxz af v odvll.

mkz fafzmzzfmk xzfmnjt yaldacz gp jgevfmaxale al mkz jvoz gp xvdawvf
fgm lzzafo kal grf pvxz af v odvll. mkz egjvd dapz gp evf pgjel hvjm gp
mkz lnwbzxm-evmmzj gp mkz vjmalm, wnm mkz egjvdamt gp vjm xgflalml af
mkz hzjpzxm nlz gp vf aehzjpzxm ezyane. fg vjmalm yzlajzl mg hjgqz
vftmkafo. zqzf mkafol mkvm vjz mjnz xvf wz hjgqzy. fg vjmalm kvl
zmkaxvd ltehvmkazl. vf zmkaxvd ltehvmkt af vf vjmalm al vf nfhvjygfvwdz
evffzjale gp lmtdz. fg vjmalm al zqzj egjway. mkz vjmalm xvf zshjzll
zqzjtmkafo. mkgnokm vfy dvfonvoz vjz mg mkz vjmalm aflmjnezfml gp vf
vjm. qaxz vfy qajmnz vjz mg mkz vjmalm evmzjavdl pgj vf vjm. pjge mkz
hgafm gp qazr gp pgje, mkz mthz gp vdd mkz vjml al mkz vjm gp mkz
enlaxavf. pjge mkz hgafm gp qazr gp pzzdafo, mkz vxmgj’l xjvpm al mkz
mthz. vdd vjm al vm gfxz lnjpvxz vfy ltewgd. mkglz rkg og wzfzvmk mkz
lnjpvxz yg lg vm mkzaj hzjad. mkglz rkg jzvy mkz ltewgd yg lg vm mkzaj
hzjad. am al mkz lhzxmvmgj, vfy fgm dapz, mkvm vjm jzvddt eajjgjl.
yaqzjlamt gp ghafagf vwgnm v rgjc gp vjm lkgrl mkvm mkz rgjc al fzr,
xgehdzs, vfy qamvd. rkzf xjamaxl yalvojzz, mkz vjmalm al af vxxgjy ramk
kaelzdp. rz xvf pgjoaqz v evf pgj evcafo v nlzpnd mkafo vl dgfo vl kz
ygzl fgm vyeajz am. mkz gfdt zsxnlz pgj evcafo v nlzdzll mkafo al mkvm
gfz vyeajzl am afmzflzdt.